 Calw 14 Sept 73
My dear wife

So I have been at Leonberg and am back 6'o' Oclock, visited Jünglingsverein and sit here to write a few words. Decan went with me this morning, he for the confirmation of a niece at Stuttg. So I had occasion to hear his thoughts about many things. Went to Lamparter, where his brother in law Gess had been a few days ago. Elise Josenhans is with them. I heard a good sermon about the good pearl, then went to see Weitbr on his sick bed, a very nice brother he is indeed full of faith and hope in his long sufferings. Not that he has many pains just now, but his state is such that one sees no end of it, a quarter of an hour was all that could be permitted for talk or intercourse, then the headnerves must be left to rest. His wife seems to get through with great strength of mind. Staudt, Zimmermann and I spoke in the afternoon, after Lamparter had commenced with prayer. I closed 3 3/4, so had 1/2 an hour to sit with the others and then to railroad. Here Buhl went home with me, also old Lechler of Münklingen. The first station I had also Buri with me, you know that schoolmaster of Renningen, with whom Colin lived for a time. He said the youth wanted a good deal of stirring up, before he really worked at something He had heard from him only a few days ago. I was then curious to hear how Buri had come from Switzld into the Würtembg School service, and whether he knew any thing of that Buri who had been a Basle pupil, then in London Darbyist and visiting India. He said, that was his brother. You may remember that the said brother was at Bombay with Brandt (who liked him) went afterwards to Chittoor and there excommunicated or cursed Groves in the name of the Darbyists etc. Now he is pastor of the reformed German Church in Amer. and has broken with all that nonsense after he had found out, what awful doctrines some of those Darbyists held with whom he had associated. It was however a short conversation. Then followed Buhl's stories of things old and new. About Meßner and other persons and offices he knows as much as any man. - Jetzt lieber Fried und Emma auch meinen schönen Dank für die photogr von den Americanern. Sie gefällt mir außerordentlich und ich hoffe sie macht auch sonst Freude. You have not yet heard that Adolf commences a detail selling shop in the Grüne Haus (Baerenplatz) pays annually 1350 Fl for the shop alone it seems. May the Lord help in all these undertakings. Farewell now I hope you had good times together. Miss Seeger comes perhaps on Monday or Tuesday for a visit en passant with her uncle,
 Ever Yours HG

Staudt is quite full of the awakening which Sweet has occasioned amgst the Engl Youth, also a Jew of Berlin has been touched and was called back by his people in consequence, to be placed under jewish teachers. But he still holds on.

1A kiss, dear Mamma, from your Marie and her boys.
