 Wildbad 16th Mai 73
Dear papa

I thank dear Jettle for sending the letters of F Dubois. So the dear Plebst are with you, much love to them, they brought I hope good news from Mama Tante and all our good peopel in Stutgart and what from Johanna? and Mrs. Ade?

I get often visits from the poor Mrs. Ruckdäshel or Täshel she is still the same will become perfect at once she is with the methodists amongst them she knows some who have had such conversion at once perfect no sin more, it does good to see Mrs. Eytel after the former, I have paid a visit to our vis a vis all nice and kind, Mme could tell much of Mrs Rucktäshel she has tried all the different sects, she is invited to go to Calw for the next conference of the Methodists, she is a cosin of Mrs. Bieneman. 
So Marie has been recieved with great honour from E I send both hearty love and kises to the children,

Half of our time is over I shall be glad to return home, We are both well, the nights are still very cold the mornings the windows are quite wet, our neighbours have still fire every morning,

I hope that I shall see David next sunday. How is Anna Gundert? has she still pain in her throught?

If Jettle does not come do not send any thing here I may likely get from David a few fl which he shall take back in Calw,

Much love and thanks to Jettle her friends will be very sorry not to see her,

With love to all and good wishes
 Yours affectly J. G.

hearty love from Uranie to you all to the dear Plebst too whom we are sorry not to see
