 Wildbad <ca. 9 Mai 73>*
Dear papa

We have arrived quite safe and well, rather cold the people say that it is colder to day than it has been of late. Mrs. Seyfried came to meet us, had some one to carry our box, the house is perfectly changed Cookrom and wash place have become fine gastrooms, they have 8 or 10 rooms to rent, One can no more have the dinnar for 30 c as we had it for us both One asks 48 c The 9th yesterday at 6 evening we took our wash bath, we slept very well after it from 8 till 7 this morning whe the sun appeard in our room; at 9 we took our second bath and went again to bed till half past eleven, it is so very cold that one keeps in bed very gladly, we had fire made; for it is impossibel to get warm with out it, You have some too I suppose except it be warmer in Calw than here,

One sees very few peopel, we were four to bath at 9 Oc Uranie feels less the cold than myself.

How is Marie with her little ones? Give her please my love; they have perhaps the sun; we had a glance of it this morning; but since that one sees little of that desired being. however we are glad that it does not rain like yesterday, I try to get warm by a good walk.

The owner of this house is a Mahler Schmied his wife a good creature has a little boy 3 month old, he sits with us now and then, she is a cosin of Mrs. Seyfried and live together, he has renewed the house and built a upper stock.

We are thank God well and wish to hear the same of you all.

With love to all especially to a Miss Emma and Miss Jettle
 Yours affectly J.G.

From Uranie much love, shes has not paid the wool to Jettle I comfort her about it as there is still time
