<ad No. 244.>* Calw 24 Febr 73
 <(In Mt Clemens 19. März 73)>*
My dear Children

My hearty thanks for your last letter, the questions about books and medecine papa shall give you the answer.

About washbretts we have none, I think your dear wife would do well to bring such a useful thing, it may serve as pattern for us too, any other useful things of which she hears they are not to be got here, she may well bring.

I am glad to hear that she lives in hopes that we shall do well together. I do hope so too and anticipate with joy the time to see and injoy you together. Very often when I feel weak and unabel to fulfil my task I think perhaps God sends me help in your dear wife and daughters. We will not picture ourselves things too fine nor as being sure; but wait upon our Lord who will surely manage all well and right.

I am not going to make questions to dear Tinne she need not fear, no no, she shall find no perfection in me and I seek not in others to find it The poorer we are in our own eyes and estimation the less do we seek perfection in others. it is alone in Jesus our Lord to whom we belong. Our dear Uranie is very glad to hear that Julia learns a little french, so that she may talk a little the language is a great drowback for her to stay with us, she will remain to see you and afterward go to Corcelles again at least for the next winter as it seams she suffers more here than in Switzerland. You shall bring us much news from my brothers with families

With a hearty kiss to each of you
 Yours J.G.
