 Wildbad 10 </11 May 73>*
Dear papa

The 10th I have dreamed that the Coaks had cost 120000 Creuzer and it made me very uneasy in my dream, in the morning as the cares would return again I felt how stupid and unbelieving I am; so that I could remain afterward quiet, and wait till I hear from you how much it has cost and if it is good, I pray dear Jettle to tell Rike to take every morning the small Coaks which has falen in the ashes and put it in a box as I used to do take it for the oven, she knows about it.

This morning in the bath I sat near a russian lady a good friend of Miss Reutern, she is the wedow of a minister or pasteur, she lives with her family in Stutgart, I have not yet heard her name, she seemes to be a good christian woman. To day the wind is very strong; but less cold than it was, it begins to rain, How is Marie with her boys, give her my love, Dear Jettle I am very sorry that you have the troubel to cook to day instead of R. I trust that Hannele may warm your dinnar.

The unknown lady in the bath has paid us a visit this afternoon a good friend of Jettle Mrs Bieneman whom I had already seen in Calw. her good long visit made that we had our caffee half past 6. She had just got a letter from a friend of her from Dorpat or what? her native place the lady a wedow asks her to seek a place for her daughter 17 or 18 years old, she is it seems Epileptig she wish to have her in a christian family where she would pay as much as one would require, Mrs Bieneman thought we might perhaps take her, as the mother is anxious to have her well placed, she separates from her child because the Dr sais it might be dangerous for her little sisters to see the attaques of Epilepsy. She begs if we can not take her to think of a minister family, she is well educated I told her that her good friend Jettle was I hope coming next saturday and might toalk with her on the subject; As we have too little room ourselves what do you think of Liebenzell?

Sunday many thanks for your kind notes which have been most well come before breackfast, So to day two preachings much to walk from one place to the other, May God give the words and the strength needed that His name be praised.

I hope you had a good after noon in Liebenzell and the children were satisfied, Uranie is very thankful to see your writing in frensh and thanks you with love, and to dear Jettle too till now we feel inspite of the cold which this morning seems to be increased, however the sun shine now and then and rivive body and soul, You are now at dinnar and shall walk to St with your Emma The Lord be with you and with you and with us  Yours affectly
 JG.

Great many thanks Dear Jettle for your kind note and for kindly offering your big schawl; but I feel not the want of it. About the question of Mrs Bieneman you will kindly think? she has a daughter with her to help her to dress she cannot move her left hand from a fall she had in December. 
I shall be glad to see Miss Eytel if she comes Mrs B. lives also on that end of the town Donc la chŠre Emma va avec papa … Stamheim jen suis contente et elle va faire la lesive je ne doute pas qu'elle y reussira, son activit‚ et savoir faire … la fˆte des mission m'a fait penser qu'elle saura se tirer d'affaire plus tard mˆme dans des difficult‚s Je lui envoye mes amities et celles d'Uranie ainsi qu'aux autres amis. Notre vie de paresseuse ne nous seroit pas d‚sagreabel jusqu'ici si ce n'etait le froid; mais voila aujourd'hui il fait assez beau je compte aller au Cathechim* et me promener avec Uranie.

Adieu ma chŠre en te remerciant ta
 J.G.

Le Coaks coute
