 <15 November 1873>*
My dear Children <Fried>*

I know how much you like to see the postman coming to you, and to excuse continually myself by the thought that my notes are not worth sending is not right so I will tell you that to day I was specially with you in my mind, could my dear Emma get some children to chear her up, I felt glad to hear that you have a good friend in Miss Verner, her father must be a fine christian of the right sort.

Had you been in Hirsau today you would have injoyed the meeting, papa spoke of the new earth of the City of Gold and on the words Behold I make everything new. every true child of God must feel and experience that the Lord is renewing him, if we give room to the spirit of God and are obedient we can not but observe that the words of Jesus are true in us so that we praise His grace which workes will and doing in us. Do you walk together as you intended to do? Still 6 weeks and we may have the joy to see each other please God. At what o clock does my Friederle comes home the evening? 
Monday By your letter of to day I hear that my dear Emma had her school with very learned children, May the Lord incline the hearts of the children to like to hear of the Bibel, and open their hearts. I rejoice to hear that some came and may God send more and give you joy with them. I have just returned from Liebenzel where we went with Jettle to see once more the dear Ministers family who are to leave in January for their new home Oberstenfelt, we are sorry to loose them; they have asked after you and send you love.

The letters of Herman give us much joy, he seems to have the Lord and wish to abide by Him. God be praised to have arranged all things as he has done, it is good to wait upon Him Adieu my very dear children

 With a kiss yours JG
