1W. Mallalieu & Co, 97 Hatton Garden, L.

 10 April 73.
Gentlemen,

As by the death of Mr Ch Young, 8 Highstreet, Islington, the Calwer Verlagsverein (called by the late Dr Barth, German & Foreign Schoolbook Society) has lost its agent for Engld, that served it for about 40 years, I wish to ask you whether you would kindly undertake this service. It consists chiefly in sending me a monthly parcel of Miss[iona]ry and other publications, as well as books, also casts to be obtained from the British publishers for our German papers.

In the hope that you will have the kindness to accede to our proposal, I will at once enter into particulars. The papers which I wish to be sent to my address Dr HG Calw, Würtbg, once a month, are written in the annexed list. Several of them were given gratis by diffrt Societies, but I have never had a specified account of them.

A parcel from the Rel Tract Society was sent to Mr Young every month & added to that which he forwarded to Calw. I beg Dr Davis in the enclosed to let you have the parcel for March & April, which are now due. <Yearly Reports>

The account with Mr Young was kept in this wise: he received for me a yearly sum of œ 15- which the London Missy Socy pay through me to a son of the late Missry J. Lechler. when needful I sent bills over. From time <up> to time he sent me an account of his expenses, <the last in July 1872 which closed with a balance of œ.2.17.5 in my favor. What balance may now be in the widow's hand I do not know exactly but as Mr Young drew in July the above sum of 15 œs, he must have then had about 17 œs in hand. As the yearly expense for Magazines, casts, books etc. averaged about 18 œ,>2 There must now be some balance in my favor with Mrs Y. <but as she>1 
But as Mrs. Young appears unable to enter into business questions about the accounts I do not wish her to be troubled with.

I have written to Mr J. Müller, Basle Mission to ask him if you accept my proposal, to supply you with the funds, that may be required in addition to the above sum of œ 15- per annum. The latter will come in about July 
This is all I think needful for the present. In the hope of a favorable answer
 I remain
