 Wildbad 18th Mai <73>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for your welcome of the 16th Thank to Jettle for hers of the 17ten At 11 Oc a little after Church I went to the train hoping to find David; but in vain he may still come at 1 Oc.

So you have had many visits I also long to hear more from Herman during his stay in New York, what Frederic sais of Lucy is nice dear girl if she has once the Gospel brought to her she might be a fine christian. We shall hear more by Herman. Yesterday I had a box from a certain Emma, a very affectionate letter, Anisbrod or sugar brod and orenges with sugar prepared to eat the orenges, only think in unpaking the box I was engry thinking that a neighbour was sending that for I had told dear J to tell no one our adress; but the dear lines of E made me ashamed, please tell her much love and hearty thanks from Uranie and myself, je remercierai de bouch ses parents. 
Jettle will be glad not to have come today, as it rains, and to morrow you have a conf‚rence in Liebenzell C'est joli qu'… Berne on ait ainsi pens‚ pour Mme Lechler. Je puis bien imaginer q'Abraham n'aime pas … ˆtre un Marchad, Dieu lui ouvrira jespŠre un chemin plus facile dans le quel il servira son Seigneur.

JespŠre que tante Emma r‚ussira … trouver quelque chose pour les cadeaux que veut faire David. Je vois assez souvent Mme Ruckdäshel quelques fois elle me plait mieux; mais … tout prendre elle est extraordinaire 
David must not trouble himself to come here from Calw he has much shorter to go direct to Stutgart we love him just the same, we shall see him afterward

I send this through Christine, In your next send me please 2 Enveloppes Many thanks to Jettle for her kind letter, Much love to dear Marie to her sons love and thanks from Uranie
 Yours affectly JG.
