 <C. 26 Sept>* [1873]
My dear Children <Fried>*

I should have written before this and thank you once more for your love and care towards me. I think with much pleasure and joy on the 9 days I spent with you, and I can say that I felt home sick after you.

The quiet nice time we sat together with dear Emma is a sweet remembrance. 
Have I perhaps left my thimbel "fingerhut" in your house? I have just heard dear Emma that the spots on your Bedcover can be cleansed with terebentine oil rubbing them with a piece of woolen cloth dipped in the oil. 
I shall send you through papa a few pairs of socks of Frederic which were still amongst those of David, and the two bed sheets from India which have come pretty well in the two washing they had. I had kept them thinking they were not fit for your house hold, however now that they are clean from the Indian spots they may serve for any thing, for I have seen that my dear daughter does not despise things which may still be used though very imperfect.

I rejoice for you dear children of the visit you now get, your worthy father has I believe a little "heimweh" after his sweet Emma. I wish you good fine weather that dear papa may prolonge his stay with you; if they injoy their visit in your house as I did they will remain longer than they intend. I had the pleasure to spend two evenings this week in your house they were all so very kind and lovely that it is a real joy to see them. 
The mornings are so cold that we have fire in the oven just as you had. You will have had a good deal of work with cleaning your windows: You must not do too much dear Emma. I wish you much joy with your dear peopel, above all peace and joy by the holy spirit.

Marie is leaving tomorrow for Stutgart with her boys; she does not intend to go this year to see you.

 With a hearty kiss
 yours J. G.
