 <3 Juli 73>*
Dearest Frederic

Many thanks for your second note. You are very kind to write to me; Regarding the caffee you have with Mrs. Zimmer I would accept it and not offer to pay it, first 12 cr would not be enough, and as she has offerd it she might be offended if you persist to offer to pay. Your dear Emma can afterward make her a present with any thing which may please her. Hofacker says in one of his preaching "caring for ones life is pride before God." Has not our good Lord said be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanks giving let your requests be made known unto God, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. If we will have peace and joy we must obey the word of God and so learn to be carful for nothing; but then what pray as a child. Dear son you have from me that cursed mind of caring. but the Lord who has helpd and redeemed me from it shall also help you and make you free in full hope on your heavenly father.

It becomes a sweet and profitabel exercise when cares come upon us to put them on the Lord with prayer supplication and thanksgiving, the mind rests quietly upon Him and waits, such an excercise of the faith and obedience is of a great value and by it we learn to know our Lord and the truth of His promises. Papa has been to me a very great help against caring, and your dear Emma shall also help you, she is made from God for you. 
Pardon my long chattering my dear son. I thank you heartily for you love towards Uranie. I hope she will be happy at home and shall be very glad to see you both, she loves and esteems Emma very much. She is a treasure which I value every day more and more. We must not forget that it is a gift of God and give Him thanks
 Adieu my dear son
 yours afftly JG.

Love from Tinne and her daughters who are fine children
Love from Jettle.
