 Basle 30 June 73
My dear wife

This Monday morning Ur. has been started by Herm and Dav, and will now be near Bienne. We went from Pforzh to Carlsr. with Zimmerm his wife and daughters, Rottmann and Zerweck fr. Africa; in Carlsr. found Herm and went with him to Appenweier from there in 2d class the rest of the way to Basle where we arrived about 4 o'cl. Insp and Mrs Hager welcomed H heartily; we went then to see Ur. who had been sent on with Dav. from the station in a Droschke to Busers. - Sunday we dined at Dettingers. I passed also one hour and more with Ur who seemed very happy. In the eveng I had the meeting in Martins church, after which we went to the garden of Christ, who also saluted Herm. (It is the man who "chassed" him along with Insp 11 years ago as H loves to relate). Then to Busers again This night we didn't sleep in the same room as my musical performances had prevented Herm from sleeping. Monday - special Conference, rather sad news from Africa as if the Engl intended not to continue the war with Ash, but would acknowledge the king as protector of the whole Goldcoast if he would make peace. Other letters say on the contrary, that Engl would gain the king of Ash with presents, to submit likewise to the British protectorate. They dont as yet see things clearly. Herm helped Ur. off at 10.30 after which he also came to the Specl Conference for he had been invited as well as Mr Buser for the first time. - Hesse is rather weak and will first visit Russia, but return before autumn. There are several Russians here, a Baron (and pastor) von Stackelberg (Reval) who seems very interesting with an old Swiss lady who had passed 50 years in St Petersbg I had a talk in the waggon, she wanted to convert me to Channing's (Unitarian) views. Deficit 145000 - and if things don't mend probably another deficit at the end of the year. Insp. has printed the annual report beforehand to be distributed, so it will not be read on Wednesday. Farewell for the present. Herm is invited to visit Glatten, perhaps he has to take along a child of Kaufmann to Hornberger at Spielberg. 
Goodbye to all not to forget the children
 Yours HG
