 Sunday 12 Octb 1873
My dear children <Fried>*

My hand is so trambling having had just a long querelle with our neighbour about her coming again so oft as before Herman came, it is really a sad thing that I come always in the fire with her; but I hope it will soon finish we have only to keep ferme now, the others must help too I have had her now more than one hour and a quarter.

So you see our dear Adolph and Anna had to give their Samuel and say thy will be done, they will have grace to tell it from the heart and experience that all things work for good to those who love God. He knows our future and deals as it is best for us, who knows how that dear child would have been having such excitabel nature, Our God and father the only wise does all right His name be praised. He will surely comfort and bless them. 
Yesterday we drunk caffee in Steinhaus all of us, saw Mrs. Dekan Herman and Tusnelte, were happy together, your good peopel dearest Emma are always so kind so good towards us that it is a real joy to meet them, we say often with papa the more one see them the more one love them,

By a letter from Uranie We may soon except Frederic with his wife, from America, they have traveled all over England, are now in Italy from whence they come to us for a visit. I wish much to see them, my brother I have not seen since 38 years his wife I have never seen. Uranie had a great joy to see them for a short time before they went to Italy, they will spent the winter in Geneve it seems. As yet no news from Mr Hesse. Papa has been very tired after the many Mission feasts in which he had so much to walk, of papa one can say he works as long as it is day. David writes you of a brother and sister who brought monney for the mission <Schumacher von Brötzingen>* I have seldom seen a man so learned by the spirit of God as he, his words have done me more good than 20 good preachings, in him one feels what the Holy spirit can teach and work

Now my beloved children Adieu with a kuss
 yours JG.

You have wash this week, do not do too much
