 <Calw 9 (-17?) Sept. 73>*
 <In Mt Clem. 7. Octob 73>*
 <Mama 13-22 Sept in Heidelberg.>*
My dear Children

I was very glad and thankful to God to hear that you were not sea sick specially for my dear Tinne who suffered much the first time. Your photographie please us very much, the children are specially very good, Today the 9th we had wash and used your wash machine yesterday I boiled praiselbeer in the pan which you kindly gave me, both presents are very useful to me and I thank you much for them. You are still continually in our minds and your names on our lipps, a great many peopel ask after you, every one in the house above and down wish to be remembered to you especially Rikele. We feel very thankful that we were permitted to see you and learn to know Mama and children. Oh my dearest Tinne I see you before me; but I cannot speak with you, one thing we can and do that is bring you before our Lord and beg for blessing you do the same for us no? Yea also that he would cure your hands at least make that it be tolerable, and how is the hand of dear Julia are the warts gone? and my dear Marle has she found her play things all in order?

For our dear son we trust the Lord is ready to give Him a good parish where he shall have grace to preach Jesus crucified and bring many poor sinners to their Saviour, this alone is worth living and preaching. I have still much heimweh" after you all, but we must look to the Lord and to our meating there where we shall part no more With a tender kiss to every one of you
 Yours J. G.
