 Calw 16 Sept 73
My dear wife

This day I have to send one of Uranie, which tells of your brother's arrival at Geneva. He is surely not so very ill when he goes to see the glaciers and other wonders of the Alps.

6 or 7 people came today to the Verein. In Leonbg there were more, but then it was a feast. I think they all remember you tho' they did not tell me of it. This morning Carl sat before the house with his flag and sang most heartily all the hymns that occured to him whilst he waved his Fahne. 
In the rain I walked a little with David. Then he began at once: what would you say if I entered the Mission? It seems that this sitting unoccupied led his thoughts back to the many proposals that have been made to him already by Inspector and now he asks if it may not be God's will that he go to India. He would like the work, he thinks, tho' not for ever. Studying at Bale would not be to his taste, but might he not in the course of time by private study come so far as to be a Missionary indeed? These are merely questions that beset him and make him very silent on our walks, but they seem to be rather deep seated in him, and may come to something. His idea of founding a business in Switzerld led him to say no to every proposal of Josenhans.

Of course I do not press on the question, nor am I sure about what is right in the end. I merely tell you what is going on under the silent surface, that you may help along by prayer. It is the only thing we can do at the present stage.

It seems a Dutchman wanted to see me on Sunday, but had to go even without the doors being opened to him. It is a friend of Bredius.

We are to sup this evening with the Heermanns. I hope you have a nice quiet time and do not go to many visites or coffeeparties. But the Schloss you must see once.

My thoughts are often at NYork about the landing place and the other stages of our dear children. I hope the Lord has brought them safely through and opens a way before them in a short time.

Farewell for the present. Rather not talk about what I said of D's thoughts; but use your own discretion. I only wish not things to be spoken of whilst so immature and merely budding.

 Good bye Your HG.
