 Calw 23. December 1868
My dearest Frederic

Monday 21 we were much rejoiced by two letters of yours, one had been put too late at the post office therefore they came two together. The Lord be praised that you are well and have good courage for the work. With us it is not at all cold it rains continually, this night peopel were in fear of a big water and the Caves <cellars>* were already getting some water. 
This year we have made no goodle for Christmas papa did not wish it, so our two sons here will be satisfied without them. The pills have been used by Paul and David with effect, that is a long as they take them; and a long use of them is unhealthy, we have now found an other mean, when I was in Stutgard I found that the Weiß had black bread just for the purpose, Carl Weiss was so good as to give me flour about 50 p and Schnürle makes me bread, I find it very useful, the flour is made of wheat in which the bran is left and it is milled or ground rather coarse, the bread is black and hard; but I like it now, and hope that my sons will like it too. 
Uranie has written that one should put for each of you four younger children 100 frcs … la caisse depargne, perhaps you prefer use them now yours, to help to pay your clavir?

Take care of your health having so much work you might soon get excited and nervous; keep close to the Lord by prayer and reading his word, He will then keep you in health according to body, spirit and soul, the chief point is be well with the Lord, he arranges then all for the better, so that one must wonder how He cares and blesses work and all

give my love to all those who remember me may our Lord give you a fine Christmas that is Himself so that you know what is that eat His flesh drink His blood and live through Him.

 Adieu dear son Yours J.G.
