 Calw 14th Sept 1868
Dearest Marie

So the Lord has taken away your dear Herman. I can well understand that the illness has been very hard for you, to see those dear little ones suffring is very painful, and I asked often why must that innocent child suffer? who has to learn by it? but God is good and does all things right and well. we must believe and learn in all things to thank our heavenly father though we do not understand, believe has not to do with understanding thats just the difficulty for us as long as reason will have right and our dear Lord has enabled you to praise and thank Him, to Him be glory for this great grace, in trial is faith seen recognised, it does good to others and it will be encreased no doubt. Yea your letter has made me weep as well of grief, about your dear pet as of joy seeing in it the grace of God given to you. Him be praise and Glory for His unspeakable grace and tender merci. 
May He yet spare your dear Theodor and both of you, and give you many spiritual children as a reward for the willing sacrifice of Herman. 
Our dear Frederic has left I feel deeper for him than for those who went before him, I had real joy with him these last 14 days he goes with the Lord humbly and shall be blessed I believe, of his last letter has Jetle told you. My love and thank to dear Margar I shall soon, unswer, Mrs Baetzner has gone to her rest, he is nice, shall spend the winter in Bale, with the Buser, Marie B nursed her Aunt tenderly she is a fine soul. tow sons. Ohlers have spent the night with us, they left after dinnar for Tubingen, 
With a tender kiss to dear papa Mama and Theodor
 yours J.G.
