 1Calw 2d September 1868
Dear Children <Herm>*

Many thanks for your last which gave us true joy. We cannot understand that the shirts a[nd] dolls have not yet reached you, Mrs Gross, Mother of Heinrich who tooke them to you was here two days ago, and was very sorry to think her son should have neglected to send them to you, she thinks it is mere forgetfulness.

A propos Paul who is just with us is much satisfied with the Homeopathy, it has required a few weeks before he found a real benefit of them, but now he is much pleased. I thank the Lord to have pointed out this medecine for him. I wish it may help dear Christina it might also be good for her hand if you had a Dr who understands it well. We will continue to wait upon the Lord who in his own time shall help with or without means.

I read with much pleasure the Chr Denkmal, the letters of papa are really beautiful, he had a good measure of the spirit of the Lord, his being always satisfied and contented with Gods ways is a rare thing. Marie and Julia must not have a too high expectation of the german dolls, they are small and humbel, but lovely.

David and Charl Weigle were here for the Yunglingsfeast, both are nice and gave us joy We are glad to have Frederic with us for a few days, he learns Canarise with his papa, We are often with you in thoughts, and wish you peace and joy. papa will write about your rich present which has been also enjoyed by the Yunglings at least half of a ham the other we have now for Fr. and Paul

 Adieu tender kisses
