 Calw 27th April 1868
Dearest Marie

I am glad of a day of rest as to day after a wash and cleaning the whole house 10 days for the last. Jettle is in Stutgart on account of her aunt who was ill, she returns soon with Mama who will bathe and be with us for the mission feast. Louise Maurus was some days here. She looks still weak and ill, she went thursday to Tubingen in Mrs Zeller's sister service, if she cannot do it she returns to Nagold.

Today I saw Mrs Wöhrle who inquire much after you sending love to you all, she has good news from Reutling What are doing the two pets? the Lord be praised that you are so well and can nurse, also that you have such help in your Ayah May God give her strength to come out and be a true christian with her two girls, and may God increase the spirituel family as rapidly as He has increased the Isenbergs Albert was here for half an hour; but looked uneasy to meet us and therfore escaped as soon as he could. I then felt what a great grace God has done unto us in our children being His property. I am very glad to see you thankful and happy. Your wishes to serve the Lord will be granted and if you continue to be small for your own eyes, God will glorify Himself through you both, look more for His work in you than for what you do for Him, the wishes of Missionaries or servants of the Lord are often a mixture which is to be first purified, freed from selfseeking and the like; Moses was not used as long as he thought he could deliver the peopel of Israel; but after ward. May you feed on the word of life and thereby be fitted for that which God has appointed you. A hearty kiss to you four,

It is still so cold and rainy with us that one has fire and could have it the whole day

Adieu my very dear Marie
 yours J.G.
