 Calw 30th Nov 1868
Dearest Marie,

These days Mrs. Wöhrle has visited us she is nice always the same, they are all well and send you hearty love. I am alone at home, papa and Jettle in Stamheim to preach, tomorrow in Altbourg DV. where papa has to preach I shall perhaps go with him to see the dear peopel there!

Give my love to dear Margueret et tell her that we do not forget her before our Lord, but wish that she found joy and peace in the Lord who has made peace for us with God through His blood having redeemd us and pardend us all our sins, that this pardon His unspeakabel love be fresh and lively in her soul daily as in you too dearest. We can love when we know and feel that much is pardoned unto us, Jea much more then we imagine, we are still so blind, without real understanding, that God must have long patience with us.

Paul and David are to be together to day, May our God send His spirit to open the heart of D. and make a new work in him, the Lord can alone help also with us who re so soon cool and liveless. Watch, pray, fight is so hard for us, and the devil so busy, The kingdom is taken by the violent, we are to stand against flesh, lusts, world, devils and self, jea know, and become violents, not let lukewormness take the upermost, else God must shake us with some knox, Oh for life Jesus our life, live and rule in us Amen.

30th a good letter from you. I think you have had long patience with your Ama, let her come in troubel and she may perhaps seek more earnestly after God

With hearty love and kisses to you all
 yours J.G.
