 Calw 15th Nov 1868
Dearest Marie

We are expecting letters from you and Frederic after which we long especially. You will have heard that Mrs. Schauber has left some money to papa for the poor amongst the pious peopel by this gift she has made me very happy just in this season I want more for them then usual. The Lord has till now helped in different ways sending what was needed, we shall also be able to send some sick people to Mrs Sekendorf.

16. We have been again rejoiced by yours and Frederic s letter, though we had confidence the Lord would bring him safe in Madras we are exceedingly glad to know that he has arrived. in 8 days we shall DV hear farther how it went in Palghat.

thanks dear children for your good news. so dear Marguaret is getting stronger and has good courage for her work, May the Lord give her joy in it and make her a blessing for the little ones give her my love and kisses as well as to her son

From Theodor we dit not hear much this time; but he is well, and cold season will strengthen him I hope, and papa and mama too.

I hope you feed on the word of God, you want strength and in that word lies your strength, it is the bread of life; when Jesus who is our life, shall appear, we shall appear with Him in Glory, is Jesus my life indeed? Oh Marie is Jesus your life? those words are so great can I with good conscience tell yes He is my life, what is that Jesus my life, say after Paul I live not I Christ lives in me. May God give me give you dear children to realise the power of His resurection in newness of life.

Accept a tender kiss for you three, love to M.
 yours affectly J.G.
