 Calw 2d August 1868
Dearest Marie.

To day papa has preached in Stamheim on the semont on the mount, God has given him grace to make clear all those diferent parts, what is the narrow door, who can enter, how to enter, what are the eye, hand and foot one has to cut off. how those who have build on the sand make a very great fall. I trust God gives his blessing to that preached word so that it works fruit to Eternal life. On our return we found letters from Samuel, and from Frederic telling of his going to India in Sempt. God has been very gracious to him and this time will I doubt not be of great use to Him, to have to pray and waint on the Lord in earnest is very useful, he had grace to do it in calm and quietness which is much for him. As the letters were read came General suprintendant Hoffman with wife and children. they are in Liebensell,

5th An other good lesson we had in Stamheim about the teaching of the Lord wich was with power <Matth 7,8 9>* and not as the scribes, many preachers and teachers can talk so fine so eloquent and it works nothing while a poor simple person with a few words work much per exempel a mother with her children can do great things with few words and other through fine speaches and big warning work nothing. so the importent thing for us is to have some of that of that power which the Lord had. the secret to get it we know too, but poor self must go down. The Lord will make all well for your Ayah who with her girls we remember before him, We must trust and believe, I read with much pleasure Christianens Denkmal. With hearty kiss to you four  Yours J.G.
