 Calw 5th July 68
Dearest Marie

Your last has again given us true joy, that the Lord fills your hearts and mouthes with praise is what I wish and specially what He deserves yea the more our eyes are opend the more do we praise, the devil can also open the eyes, but to be disatisfied as Eva and the people of Israel. who on this account our first mother was desobedient and the Israelites unbelieving so as to perish in the wilderness. to be dissatisfied unthankful is the greatest drowback from God. in this case there is also no faith in prayer, and no real prayer, Hebich used to say, your prayers are not going to God they stop at the clouds, These days I have been thinking more of prayer what is that pray without ceasing, be watching unto prayer the prayer of the elect night and day. It is sure that if we wish to become somethings to Gods praise we must pray more, dear Hebich comes often in my mind, how he used to pray, short but often, how is it in the begining of the conversion? I remember how I could pray every moment, all that which I saw or heard caused me to pray, I had not sowellued any thing without a sigh to God, new fruits especially, how have I become cold and dead: but I feel and believe God will give me again such grace and enabel me to confess His name in all occasions, no more bound with fear of men and a wish to please men, may God redeem me fully from this all and feel me with the first love again and you too so that we feel ourselves constrained by the love of Jesus to witness of Him.

This week has been filld with work, papa s room cleansed, our sleeping room and eatingroom tapisired and a big wash, but God has been very merciful and I feel that He makes true my loosung of new year. "I the Lord your God has brought you to rest" so that I can be quiet calm in the midst of work, the very contrary of my nature and inclination, I tell you this that you may take courage and believe; to God all is possibel though nature say it is impossibel.

I have put so much varnish on our farnitures that you have even your note schmeerd with it pardon me. Our servant is nothing for cleaning she makes dirtyer than she cleans. I slept in your room these 8 days of cleaning, I injoyed it very much and thought much of you, also the morning when at four the holzmacher came to splitt the wood! I did not dislike their noise, for I wanted to get up early, our girl never gets up before me though it should be six Oc and more.

A great many peopel have charged me to give you their love; but I do not remember them all.

It is good your little one is so brave at night so that you have rest. 
My love to Margaret also to your Ayah wishing her to have soon her children and the peace which is given with the pardon of sin. How is dear Charles has he had no attack of fever or diarrhee? He looks very thin on the pho. but you look well, With a tender kiss to you all
 Yours J.G.
