 1Calw 29 Nov 1868
Dearest Frederic

To day I am quite alone at home, with my bibel in which I find abundance of food, it is true sweeter than honny. how precious that God has given us His holy word, and makes it bread of life for our souls giving us hunger and thirst after it. I trust that you have such hunger and thirst and feed richly on that heavenly bread, Papa and Jettle are in Stamheim - where papa preaches, Paul is I trust in Stutgart where he had a great wish to see his brother, May God be in their midst and let life and light come out of this meeting. Poor David is still driven about, without saviour and worse is that he has no longing after Him. The Lord be praised to have spared him with the other young men of the unclean spirit which rules in Caroline W. I pray and wish David could confess his sins he would soon be helped and become lively!

About your health dear son comes now and then cares; but I can put them on the Lord who has sent you in India, hear only attentively Gods voice leave that which He wishes of you, let Him be your whole portion, Jesus your life. Wait patiently on Him he shall fulfill His promise for you as He has done it for me and for all those who can believe and wait upon Him, Isaiah 40,31. read the whole chapter and consider well the three last verses 
Avoied also all agitation "aufregung" for the palpitations it is a bad thing, avoid it with peopel in your work in food, seek constantly quiet and rest, walk not quick and not long, never in the sun 30th a letter from you God be praised. tell me in every letter what you may want we shall send it by Emelie Muller. Have you had no towels from Bale anything you may want tell it. In our time a 12 costed 5 rupis and now 9 but they are better than ours here I hope you will succeed in getting milk


1Ich habe noch 30 Fl die Dir gehören, glaubs doch!

Hüte Dich, Du darfst kein Geld hieher schicken, Du brauchst alles was Du draußen erhältst und uns macht es Freude was zu senden. Elias kostete 4 Fl 16 C.

David ist recht im Gericht, wie er selbst sagt, weil er soviel gerichtet habe
