 Calw first March 1868
Dearest Marie

to day papa preached this morning in Stamheim after noon in Hirsau. I could not go on account of toothach. I regett always if I cannot hear papa specially in Stamheim and Hirsau. however God gave me out of his word rich food, the morning at prayer we have began the old testament, so we had about the disobedience of our first parents, if we observe well we find still that every desobedience bring us death; and as the obedience of our Lord brought us life and grace we find also that in order to remain in life and have it abundantly we have to obey, to follow, know and realise every day that we are dead a buried with Jesus; and raised with him, Oh dear Marie read much Gods word feed upon it with prayer without this we are unfit to speak in His name

6th Last night I dreamd lively that I was in a house were a nice girl was born rather large with red cheeks, the mother I did not see; but it seamed me as if had been you, one said the mother has no milk as yet, than I took the baby and gave my milk in saying my milk is too old however till the mother of the baby get some it will do. Early the morning there was music in Calw by which I was awaked, I than said it is for the birthday of Maries child; but it was for our king! We are of course much with you in this month and it is perhaps the cause of this dream or is it perhaps real? it is good that there are yet four posts in the month so that we may soon hear about your doings in March.

15 Many thanks for yours of the 8 Feb we as well as yourselves have to look to the Lord alone for help, the quietness of spirit and mind which is necessary for you in this time can our Lord alone give you. therefore may God teach you, teach me to seek by all means this quietness in Him in which we are able to bear all that which may come with the mind settled upon Him without whose will not a hair falls. Oh for such perfect rest and quietness, this gives us assurance and child like confidence to our dear father and Lord who surely loves us more than any earthly parents. About the school you ought not troubel yourself. Margaret must do, if she is alone she will manage it feeling the responsibility is on her. About Charles not writing I never thought it a want of love, no no I love him dearly. You are happy I thank God He has given you such a dear man

The dress is a present from Jettle with the socks the pictures and coton is from us, there is but one pound Chocolate, I mentioned the Lebkuchen not that they are worth but as one or two are from Stutg I wanted you to know it, it is funn about the sugar box it is an old one in which are the Lebkuchen I wanted to send the new one but after trying we found that the few Lebkuchen passed better in the old one; but as papa was present as we tryed he made a jocke of it

It is very kind of Margaret to send me baskets I thank her heartily, I shall write an other time D.V. meanwhile my love to her with best wishes to learn sindi, more courage than I had when 48 years old I tried to learn Tulu she will still remember how I murdered the words, in Mangalore and wept 
18 Today we are cleaning your room, in washing your bedstand I saw your name on the plank. I could have wished you here with the little girl I would nurse you; but you have I trust good people to do it and dear Charles is so careful and has a good deal of expirience

Adieu dear children. With a tender kiss to four I trust
 yours J.G.
