 1Calw 8th Februar 1868
Dearest Marie

Yours of the 31 Dec came to hand yesterday in which you say that Theodor has some what in the navel "protrude" I do not know what it is; but papa says, that it is nothing to be alarmed, he thinks even that Hermann had something like it. I do not remember. God will help you for this as for all other complaints bring them only to Him. The words in Phillip 4,6.7 should give us new courage and confidence; but we must do what we are told, let our requests be made known unto God by prayers and supplications, with thanksgiving, We are happy peopel to have such promises, which most surely shall be realised if we can believe and pray.

We were in Nagold, last tuesday A propos you know that in Mrs Zellers house is a Verein in which the children gather as many creuzer as they can for your school and the first child which shall be baptised or get a name shall be cald Nagold, if you once can write a few lines to be told there it would be nice, any thing to show you know about it and have recieved the 20 fl they have gathered last year, it is much of them besides their other opfers. We found Louise nice, but not yet better; that is if she does nothing she has no pains but as soon she does any thing even sew the pains come again. We have now written to Mrs Kapf who is coming to Stutgart from Winenden to take the Deaconniss Institution whether she could perhaps take Louise as house Yumfer; You know that her mother has died of course, a few days before her illness she had as usual sent a few lines with a loaf of sugar and Appels. It is a great loss, her daughter Marie Kapf may I trust in some measure fill her place at least for the poor and needy. 
One hears a great deal of complaints the poverty is rather extensive and great, the strangers who are here for the railway encrease it still; there passes scarsly a week without an accident, iether one has been killed or taken to the hospital with broken members, food is very dear, the bread is sour, we make seldom bread some because it is sour; when we have a bread soope with fleich brüh we sai if Marie had it she would be glad; for you used to like it

Barth matchen send you love and many other, Elise W was in the ferein to day as papa red about the joy of your girls as they got their Christmas presents, also the basket of beeds which I had given I was glad that she heard it

Did you know the young Mrs. Grauss daughter of the Shuldheiss in Mötlingen she died yesterday after having given birth to a little boy, she had a consomption since some month much cough, her husband a pious man is teacher in Calw he has a girl 2 years old, since her birth the mother remained weak she came often to Annele by Bard, a nice woman. The old Katherine Muller is also dying after a long illness wassersucht, Mrs Bäetzner is better, Mrs Lamparter quite well, with her second girl. Your time is droing near, perhaps when you get this are you in bed, of course we look anxiously for news, trusting in God who does more than we pray and understand. Only keep quiet I pray you for body and mind
