 1Calw 21 May 68
Dear Children <Marie>*

Today Ascention papa has preached in the words of the Lord go and preach the gospel, it was clear and faithful, may God bless that word for many. The church was ful as it is usually in the mornings. after the preaching took place the ordination of Frei of whom others will write you enough. 
These days we have been looking for a letter from you; but in vain. I paid a visit to Mrs Wöhrle with Mama and gave your present for Marie Fink. Much love from them all. Mama will already leave us tomorrow because of tante Emma who is not well, she has a swelling in one leg under the knee which makes Mama anxious.

The washer woman Schweizer has left Calw to go to <Neuweiler>* where she bought the goods of one of the Jerusalems friend, after having been a zealous methodist she follows now the other secte at least goes to their meetings.

24 yours of 19 April has just come for which many thanks, you should not accustom your little one to sleep with you, you will find it hard afterward to have him in his own bed, and during teething he will trouble you much, it is healthyer to be alone for each of you. I did the same with David and when afterward I would have him in his own bed I had much troubel he feel asleep in his bed; but as soon he saw me sleeping he jumpt again in mine so slowly so cunningly. once as I would not have him he said weeping Oh it is perhaps the last night I live, let me I pray still this time 
You complain to be cold and loveless after so many mercis, Jea it is a wicked heart which we carry about it is decietful above all. therefore the Lord said about his Kingdom that the violants take it; He has repeated once and over watch and pray, without which we become lukewarm. it is that which devil and flesh will have and our Lord who believe what is written which we should aslo believe, that is God will spew out of his mouth the Lukwarm sends us in his merci and love all sortes of trials and chastises as to preserve us from lukwarmness or to shake us out of it. It would be certainly much better for us to make us violence being watchful unto prayer, than to be obliged to be chastised. I think that just when we feel so cold and lifeless would be the time to have a day of fasting and prayer to overcome that sleepeness which come upon us so forcibly, to speak of it helps nothing. overcome we must, what have we to overcome? and who shall inherit the fulfilment of the promises? Good courage dearest Marie the time of fighting is short let us be good soldiers. let us look to the crown of life, to our Lord who did fight in Getsemane, there the devil would robb us of the salvation; and our Lord had to fight till blood. What have we fought till now? Oh the patience and longsuffring of our Lord!

Miss Dörtenbach has just been here she sends love, she had shortly new from Miss Freedel who suffers from spinal deasees already since two years. but in spite of it she prefers staying in England than to come home. Your Herman should not drink so often; but wait at least two hours, it is not good so oft drinking as well for him as for yourself

Papa has on the cap you have sent to Fred
