+ ca 9 Juni 68
 7 Sonntag 8 Mont Mama in Stuttg

Dear David

In Olgastraße I heard that Mr Hebich had warned the peopel against the teaching or doctrine if Mr Leypold as being unsafe. He is too much under the law, and takes specially the Old Test. as guide. I did not understand when you spoke to me about the Old Test. I thought it somewhat strange and made no remark; that you speak also more of God than of our Lord struck me, but could not tell you my feelings. Now allow me to beg you to consider the subject, read also the Epistel to the Romans and the New Test. The Law commands and will have obedience in order to live. Our Lord gives and from Him we have to recieve and accept. John says the law has come through Moses; but grace and truth through Jesus Christ. Let not yourself be misled, take the whole of Gods word and pray with us that God our Lord would open your eyes on these different doctrines and guide you aright.

May you have joy and peace in believing the pardon of your sins and may our Lord who has redeemed you, be very precious to you. He said "abide in me, let my words abide in you and pray, it shall be done unto you" the law says: Do and gives me no strength to Do. Oh dear Son I pray you read with prayer the explication of Luther of the Galatians and let not yourself be put in bondage. Our Lord has made us free, let us not become slaves of different spirits and doctrines. The just shall live by faith. What is faith? If you accept Christ who has fulfilled the law for you, you are free, put not yourself under the curse again. Our Lord has been cursed for us and I have to hear him and follow him fully.

I trust dear son that you will not become cool and lazy with our Lord; but be warmer and more zealous under Christ than under the Law. May God teach you the right and safe way and Jesus tell in your inmost I am the way and the life. I am the bread of life, he who eats me shall live ....1 
Adieu dear son Write me soon Yours
 J.G
