 Calw 27th February [1868]
Dearest Marie.

By your last letter we were much grieved to hear that dear Charles had so much cough even spitted blood, it is a complaint to be considered, and you said that he was to recommence the journey soon. You must know that the last is worse or may become worse than the fever he had, so take care of your selves, a neglected cold may become very serious, however I trust that all my fears about you will be turned to shame

I went to Stutgart last suterday; papa had to go to Felbach on monday so I went one day before him to see the friends in Hoch and silberburg street, Mama went to meet me at the post, looks very well and as happy as ever. Tante not quite so well; but happy I must confess they pleased me more than in Olga street; the spirit of judging condemning all that which does not go to hear Hebich is to me painful Anna is no more so silent, she talks much more; but most in that spirit as if besides Hebich there were not true life. You keep this for you, dear tante Emma makes progress, she knows the love which will not only injoye; but which suffers, serves, and offers it self for others. After dinner Mama tante went with me to Mrs. Isenberg. I found her taking her napp on her easy chair Peregrina sewing, it was just Jetthen s birthday. they were all well and happy, but Albert was not there he comes very seldom, Peregrina looks much better and is chearful; she showed me her letters from England, he writes her in secret that perhaps he shall get an other appointement <curat> where he shall get more pay in which case they would live alone lease the mother and sisters where they are and take the children with them, this is a fine prospect may it be realised for dear Peregrina her mother in law wrote her too in answer to congratulations P had written on her birthday P said it was a nice letter I would not take it as an affectionate letter; but P is pleased with it. her girls wrote too on Christmas P is very diligent continually at work. I told her to learn rather a little house keeping so that if she should be alone with him she may guide her house.

Paul who had come from Tubigen went with papa Mama and myself to Felbach the morning on the railway met many people going there too, all asked after you afternoon came tante Emma Adolph and Frederic, As soon as the church was over we went to Canstadt where Paul took his way to Tubingen and we to Stutgart, Mrs. Desselberger whose husband is oberhelfer there took mama from Felbach in her carriage, as it rained she would not have been able to walk. Julius mother asked much after you sends you hearty love she was very hearty,

Adieu dear Children with kisses to you three
 Yours J.G.
