 Calw 10th May 1868
Dearest Marie

Your last letters have again given joy. It is a great mercy that you have so near such a nice cool place as Ghizree where you can with Gods grace get new strength, remain also longer in it; it is good for the children too. Though you have milk enough you should accostomed your boy soon to another food as well for him as for you; he gets sooner to it still young than afterward, and your strength will return sooner by your not nursing intirely. Herman writes much this time about his girls who give them much joy, he has even sent a piece of paper on which Julia has tried her first drowing, Grand Mama who is with us assures that it is much for a child of four year; but poor Christina is much troubled with those Dartu* ringworm They try now a new remedy may God bless it.

Your Theodor gives you work by being so lively; he is like David was. May he become like him in faith. The ways of God with him is wonderful, he seems now to live from the word of God, every thing must bow before it. Oh it is something very great when the word has such power over us that all is thereby subdued and silenced, obedience to the word to the spirit gives us power to speak to others. May God give you, give us grace to find our delight to do his will and know what the Lord ment when he said my food is to do the will of him who has sent me. We know as yet but little of the Lord, I mean know him as Paul did in His suffrings death, and resurection, we are still too great, self lives too much, that the Lord could be Lord in us, when shall truth reallity stand instead of nature and appearance which is without power.

Grandmama is with us since 10 days, they are all in Stamheim where papa preaches, and we have got suddenly such rain and hail that I had quickly to schut up all the venitions and send a bandy to bring them back for poor Mama could not walk, the road is full of water, in the coridor before Weitbrecht contoir it was so full of water rushing from the Garden that three persons were occupied to push it out with brooms, You may imagine the joy of Charl Sch who said it is all white with ice snow, he ate it gladly. I hope it has not damaged much, perhaps the trees which are in flower or blossom.

12th GrossMama writes such long letters to Emma that I am ashamed of my little ones; but you get so much from others that surely you miss nothing. GrandM thinks that we are too cool with Emelie; but I can really not show more love than I have, and whether it would be good for her is still the question, she does not give the impression to me of growing altho' she wants continually to hear and even weeps often during the meeting or reading.

Now Adieu Love and kisses to you four
 yours J.G.
