 <22 Nov 68.>1
Dearest Frederic

This morning 2 dear letters from you. You have given us much joy. The Lord be praised for His goodness and faithfulness to you, He is with you, we felt it. About the pains in the heart be not anxious, it is only to help you to know God to learn to trust Him, believe in Him and walk holy before Him, this He will have of you. I praise the Lord that He has made you fell the value of His holy blood, His death for you, Jea these things must be living in us many know them only with the head and understanding, such knowlege does not change us nor can it give us any power to be renewed nor fight against sin, but realise them as Maria Magdelene. know with the heart in truth that God is my father, Jesus my Saviour my Lord His word the bread of life by wich I live, this knowlege gives us power against all sins and temptations, Oh my sweet Frederic I have good confidence for you as long as you remain humbel small and feed on the word of God with prayer. We feel united with you in the spirit and bear you in our hearts continually, continue only to distrust yourself, seeking to please God and not men with a good conscience.

the sad stories of the Weises will terrify you as they did me, how awful to have so good opinion of oneself as Caroline had! I spent a day in Stutgart, very sad day, also David is not yet as a child towards God nor towrds us, we can but pray and believe with waiting. Grandmama Tante E very well, send you hearty kisses, and I with true love remain united in the spirit in our Lord with you continue to write us a separat little bit telling us your heart we like it very much we understand you and love you the more for it. love to all the friends
 Yours JG.

you must not eat curry it is not good for your illness
