 Calw 13th Sept 1868.
My very dear Frederic

I was just thinking to write you still a few lines per post; but Mr. Buser who has just visited us after church tells us that he returns to Bale to morrow, so I take his opportunity for this note, and the correctur which papa will like to have in Bale. The few lines of dear papa have just come we are all very thankful to have them. Mrs. Dreiss will be sorry not to have found Mrs. Anderson.

We have been thinking much of you dear son, in the midst of wash and work, dear friederle was always in mind and in the conversation. I am very glad and thankful for the few days we had still together, I can let you go away quieter having seen that the Lord is with you and that you can believe, and we can never believe enough. Peter was not reprouved for venturing to walk on the wateres, but for want of faith, yea God will realise the fine text you had on your departure, teaching you and us more and more how we are to drow strength and power out of Him, it is a secret which faith makes known unto us, and the trial of faith encreases the sweet experiences of it. 
Mornings and evenings Paul has the prayers. to day I have been talking a little with him about John 7.38 and on the words of the Lord "he who believes in me shall do greater works then these.

I have put down my pen a while to go to Hirsau, God has given to Paul words of life and power on Luke 1 Ch from the 68 verse, it is of the Lord, yea wonderful what He gives I believe that all who were present got some thing may it be so, he was a little nervous I think and some what excited; but full of life. And you my sweet Frederic God will also make you a blessing in quietness and calm, I have good confidence in God, and remember what you told me about David I must believe yea that is have faith. Mrs Gustele Wagner has just been here and lamented that you did not visit her, she sends you hearty love, May God strengthen you for the adieu from papa from this land, look on the Lord believe in Him then all is possibel

A tender kiss from yours affectly
 J.G.

I fancy that I am still pressing you in my arms, Adieu my very dear Child 
Miss Kapler said of Paul, after she heard in Hirsau let him not leave this land. We want such preacher as well as the heathen
