 14th October 1868
Dearest Marie

About the blankets, we suppose with Mrs Wöhrle that you have counted the doubel ones as two; they have been paid as doubel that is 26 f per piece two such big ones, else Mrs Wöhrle cannot account for being two more. To day after the Lord supper, we went to pay a visit to Mrs. Rosser whose litte girl has died, You know that she had tweens which made the joy of the family, the first born lives still but looks weak and very small, she has also diarrhee of which many children die here.

We are longing after news from you to hear how is dear Theodor, we had a letter after dinar from Alexandria, the young peopel are glad to have Mrs Anderson on board, Frederic writes happy and well. I just hear that Louise Maurus is again ill in Tubingen. Mrs Lamparder not at all well. it has begin with bad breast, and now the whole body is not well an iruption which gives some anxiety. The old Seyfried marrys again a Mrs Lotholds Aunt of the Caroline who lives with them Jettle is in Stutg for a few days. 
Paul here gives us joy visits the sicks and spent the whole day to read the Bibel, from 5 to seven evening, he is not yet quite well

5th comes yours of Sept I am glad and thank God to hear that dear Theodor is well, but I am sorry to see that you are so much grieved about Herman is not God who took it to Himself your father, should He not be dearer to you than your child? Can He make a mistake, are you sure that, that dear child could have born the great tryal which is to come perhaps the Antechrist, Oh dear Marie think of the futur and not of injoing too much yet It is I think a temptation from the ennemy by which you are not able to be pleased with Gods will, Keep yourselves from idols is told to christians, look well, God has let you Theodor, your husband, you have much to thank for. I am sure that by this time you have had grace to submit and kiss the hand of your father, but we learn to know ourselves if left alone we are just like the world God bless you richly my very dear Marie and Charls with Theodor  adieu
