+ Nach Hermanns Abschrift.

An Elzie Dubois in New-York.

 Calw, 23. Sept. 1868.

Dear Sister, we are glad to hear that Francis is likely to make his appearance in our neighbourhood before many days are over. It would be nice for him to see something of the country before the cold season comes on. You know we expect a very fine autumn. The vindressers use to say: 68 is just twice 34, or also: Little Rhine, great wine.

Our Frederick left Calw on the 12th, Bale on the 16 to proceed to Mangalore, as Merchant in the service of the Mission. He felt the parting as much as we, for he was always the most tender of our children, and after his heart disease I had nearly calculated on his remaining with us to the end of our or his life. But I could not prevent his proceeding to India as his bodily health seemed to permit it. He is very far from enthusistic, knows well enough that he is a very poor fellow, has little strength, no animal courage etc, but he hopes the Lord will do a wonder and make something out of a mere nought. I accompan. him to Bale where he has spent 5 years of his boyhood. It was remarkable how soon he got again into the way of pronouncing Canarese words and reading the language of his earliest days. At Neuchatel he was glad of seeing his aunt Uranie, she told him how much Henriette is grieved about Fritz. It seems also they lost the hope of their vineyards by a late hailstorm. From Marseille he wrote on the 19th. the day of their embarcation. Every thing had so far gone well with them. They are 3 brethren and a bride for China, accompanied by a mother in Israel, Mrs Anderson of the Free Church Mission in Madr.

Mary lost her baby, Hermann, born 7th March 68; the fearful heat affected his bowels and she had to part with him 11. August. She feels it deeply, but is resigned, if she can but keep her elder boy who seems much excited by the loss of his brother. Perhaps these sufferings are just the thing wanted to make an impression on her Ayah who thinks of becoming a Christian, but is still kept wavering between her Muhamedan friends and the impression received at the Miss.house.

Samuel is happy with his Elizabeth, but they feel it rather hard to have as yet no prospect of an increase of family. Sam. will have to receive his brother if not at the landing, at least soon afterwards, when Fred. will spend some days with him at Palghat. I shall try to get you a Photogf. of Samuel a his wife the other of Mary we think of getting multiplied at Stuttgart, when a copy may also be secured for you. Elizabeth you know is the daughter of my ofd friend Isbg.

Dear Lucy will surely be glad to read to you, now that your eyes are so much weakened! I for one tremble at the very idea of being made dependent on others for my reading. It must be a great trial even for those, whose maintenance is not derived from the use they make of their eyes. Still I know that such apparent loss can also be made a gain, if the inward eye be quickened in the same measure as the outward senses are decaying. - My good countryman in your neighbourhood is not the only specimen of pompous ecclesiastics. We have them perhaps in less number than the English, but still there is enough of them and to spare, tho' North Germany may be more plentifully supplied with them than our South. The High Lutherans in Prussia and elsewhere are just as sure of being the Church as your Ritualists ever can be. Any union or Alliance of the denominations is to them rank poison. But I believe that good men will gradually see their way clear to the only feasible plan for our timt "to agree to disagree".

We shall take care, not to disgust dear Frank with our own notions, and I dare say the intercourse with our Paul, will be somewhat interesting to the American cousin, as it affords him an opportunity of comparing University life as it is in Germany with the transatlantic species of the same thing. Paul is always poring over his Bible and loves to preach whenever he is called. I confess I never in my life devoted so much time to Scripture Study as he does, except when I had to translate the Book in India. - Dear Julia sends much love to you all. She is very quiet and happy and wishes that all men might enjoy the same blessings. Should you go to Nice, we hope to see you somewhere be it in Switzerland or Germany. Farewell for the present.
