 <18 Octbr 68.>*
1Very Dear Marie

A propos as we were in Nagold for the mission feast Mrs. Zeller gave for you 20 Guld for your school from her girls. Could you not once write them a few lines.

18th on your birthday come your letter and photograph, many thanks for it it is very nice, you look very much as you did on the one made made before you came to India 57 young and full cheeks, it is the finest we have of you, Theodor does not look so nice as on the first.

Yesterday <(17/10>* our Paul went away. he is a man of God, walks with God lives from the word of life, his preaching and prayers, are nearly nothing but the bibel it mouves him so that it flows most abundently. I took him to some sick peopel, I was astonished to see the love the feelings and how he quickly sow the state of their soul, he repeated his visits to them without my knowing it even till Hirsau. he eats very little, as I insisted on his eating more, he said me alone I have made it up with God in order to know more His holy word and abide in Him, he is like a rock unmouvable, the grace of God is indeed mighty in him, Of David one can but repeat that he is a jew, his last letter is in these words "Dear mother I see I am not quite right, till now, I forgot you wholly on your bithday, only yesterday I thought about you and am wishing to come nearer to you, but in truth I cannot be now so and afterwards otherwise, I dont like that, therefore God gives me in his great grace allways a little bit, so much, as I can carry" 
He never uses the word Lord, always God Jehova, We can but pray that God would soon show him his state. Marie Mo... has written a long letter, both have been ill, she remembers you every day, sends hearty love, she is much please to hear of Frederic going also in Gods work, the Aunts of Corcelles send hearty love too
