 <5 August 1868.>*
Dear Frederic

I had been thinking about a box at least to take your things to Bale, there they have them made for the journey, as they know what is wanted; I shall send one of our green ones to St and shall D.V. come to pack your things; but I suppose it will not be before the 22 when I shall come with papa. Next week you shall send your wash, I shall tell you once more which day, sending you shirts from Paul in order that all yours remain clean to go. the boots which you have with doubel souls are enough for the rainy seasons one or two pairs; for usual it is better single on account of the heat. I intended to give you a nice blanket for Christmas, so I will now buy you one of the finest by Seger, in Bale you will get one too; but coarse, it will do for the journey and rain; and the fine one in summer or when you be troubled with stomach ache. Slipper you may want two pairs as at home one wears nothing else; we can buy them here or when I come to you. the blue trawsers and gillet you have from Gustave will do well for India, such one or coarser you will get in Bale like the brethren who are sent out. Miss Dreiss comes to us almost every day. she is a fine soul. not easily excited, firm and decided, she might do good to the others during the journey. also to Emely Muller your futur house mother, We shall have many things to talk together the last days, I hope they will not ask in Bale that you go before the 10th or 12th the time will be short enough for us. You have still to hear and learn many things from your father which are more needful than spend your time about. Try by all means to keep quiet and calm, it is necessary for your soul and body. We cannot hear God's voice, if we are fidgetted or excited, you have also a barometre in your body, in stomach and nerves. this barometre will last as long as you live. listen to it and hear well what God tells you

Adieu dear son
 yours J.G.
