 4th October 1868
Dearest Frederic

To day came yours from Alexandrie many thanks for it, God be praised who has brought you so far well and safely. I am glad you like Mrs Anderson and try to speak with those you meet on board, may God bless the witness to his Name. Yesterday you will have arrived in Suez we trust, it will be less hot than on the read see. I wonder that you felt the heat so much on the mediterranean already.

Tuesday is to be a sungverein by us, Jetle is in Stutgart to see her Aunt, We expect the Diezes soon here, It was right you took a letter of Eugenie in yours, now you will soon separe from each other, if the Miss Rowol gets a man who smoke what shall she do? Louise is so much interested in your letters that she comes and ask me to hear it still once more. König is just here asking news from all our children, he is going to begin his yearly journey in Wurtemberg which lasts usually a coupel of month it is indeed good for him to get a better food than in Armenhouse where he lives, 
You knew that Roser had two babies that is twins, the last born of the two girls has died yesterday, the other looks very poorly and weak, they were so very happy of there tweens, The old papa Seyfried is to marry again, to day it was proclaimd in church with a Lodholz a aunt of the Girl who is with them.

5 Yours of Alexandrie came for which many thanks, The Lord be praised for His goodness to you, may He fill you with love for the souls of the black peopel and make you a blessing for many. be always small for your own eyes then our Lord will use you

Adieu sweet dearest Frederic
 yours J.G.
