 Calw 26th februar 1868
 <In Mt Clemens 21. März>*
Dear Children

Your last letter has again made us somewhat uneasy about your throat. in Stutgart I heard from tante Reiniger whose husband suffered once much in that way that one should <möglichst oft mit einer Mischung von einer obern Tasse voll Eibischthee, einem Löffel voll Essig und einem Löffel voll Honig gurgeln.>1 tante spoke also of Cataplasm made with bread and milk, as long as as there is swolling one should apply Cataplasm. I hope that before this reaches you, you will have got better and no more want these remedies, Our Lord is the good physician who with or without means cures us when we have understood what He has to teach us through the different trials we have to go through We must only learn to be with God as children are towards a good father full of confidence. It is something very precious when we can fully trust our Lord and in all things put our cares upon Him. Surely He cares for us.

We praise the Lord to see his work in you, you have now the son and therefore Eternal life; in Him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and science Oh may He be very precious to us, may we daily look for His appearing. 
In Stutgart we spoke much of you, all, but especially tante send you hearty love, she is not quite well. Paul came too there so we had a nice time together, Frederic is rather disapointed that the conscription does not take place in March as usual, he expected to be with us a few days; but one speaks of Automn instead of now. With hearty kisses to you four  yours J.G.
