 Calw 29th Mars 1868
Dearest Marie

Many hearty thanks for your letter As I had an opportunity till Bale I have sent it to Marie Monnard who is glad to get any thing from you. Nathanael Weitbrecht went to Bƒle where he remains in the mission as merchant, so I sent by him some letters and a few anis breadly to Henriette for the first time she as well as Uranie had a tolerable winter. Frederic is said to have lost his money in a bank which faliert, Fritz never writes to his mother, does not come to his Unkels whether he has still a creuzer one does not know, he grieves his poor mother very much.

Last thursday came papa from Stutgart with David quite unexpected which made of course dubbel joy, as Paul is also here for a few weeks. he has again become rather thin being not quite well. having always to suffer from constipation Omeopothy might do him good; it has done good to Henriette who suffered also from it, but Paul is under treatement in Tubingen will not try something else. Frederic shall come I trust next week for a few days; but probably not so long as David who has 8 days allowence, as Conrad is still with Steinkopf; but shall perhaps soon go in a large town where he has written for a place. David shall naturally be glad to become the first. We were grieved to hear of your fine promesing young man to have left as he should have been baptised; but for such thing one must always be prepared. God will in His time bring him if he is upright, and bring also some others to knowlege of Himself who shall not fear to follow their Lord leaving world, caste and family, only wait on Gods time May you have joy in the school children, I am sure dear Margaret will in the midst of her work remember our schools in Tellicherry, Cherical Mangalore and Calicut, though we sow; but very few fruits I trust that perhaps a few have learnt to know their Saviour. however I dare not think of it I had too little love. May God give you and to Margaret true love so that you may not be ashamed afterward.

All the news here about Louise Mrs Dirtenbach etc you get from two good writers.

In four weeks we may perhaps hear of the desired news; And your dear Mr. Burkle had already died when you wrote to us; but you knew it not, we have seen it by the paper.

30th I dreamd again of a little girl who was so brave so lieb, slept well after she had drunk her mämele bottel which I Gave her. Papa says it is time to send off the letter so I must say Adieu, if you could see David the more he grows the more he is like his papa and in business a real man. how did he help me in house and garden these few days, he understands every work, you would have a real joy in him and does all with quietness, consideration. Colonel Young called him after his birth an observer and discovered many fine and great qualities which are developing with the age 
 Adieu yours JG.
