 1Calw 2d Sept 1868
Dearest Marie

Your last has made me some what anxious, as you had again fever; I fear you are too good with your Ayah, and trust her too much, You allow her so many times to see her relations spend so many days away it may be too much, she imagines herself perhaps indispensabel to you! I may be wrong I do not know I am glad to hear that M. is doing better. Last sunday we had the yunglingsverein feast, there were many peopel, it was nice. Frederic came saturday with Adolph and Anna she is nice, much more comunicative than formerly. I was very glad that she came. I value her much. Vicar Werner came too he slept with Frederich in your room while David Charl Weigle and Paul filled the Vorsale <saal>2 where all the crust <Grust>2 had been put, I had much joy to see them evidently all growing in the Lord, the very look of Charl shows that he is an other man. Mrs Pfarer Gross has also been here she sends you hearty love, they like to be in Giengen, all of them are healthyer than in Zafelst. Mr and Mrs Deckinger were here too she is much troubled about him, for he is worse since he was in Liebensel to bath, he is very quiet and nice saying of his wife she cannot believe must pray for her, I read with a true delight the Ch Denkmal, I would not have known dear papa Gundert without reading his letters to wife and sons how full of life, He knew his Lord well, they really do me good, what a child like spirit. Dear Frederic sits by me learning Canarise, he is nice, I believe God can use him in his vinyard, I long to hear how you are, we had a beautiful summer just as I like good worm
