 7 August 1868.
Dear Frederic

Many thanks for your letter, first you need not take farwell from Paul he is to be here <d.h. geh nur nach Tüb und sieh ihn auch dort einmal>1 with you in September as it will be vacanse.

take one of your new shirts with this sock I join here, send them to Bale for pattern. You may write that you have one dozen shirts 1 dozen cotton socks 6 pairs woollen ones, one dozen pocket handkerchiefs, the rest you want besides these they shall send out from Bale they know how much is still wanted. As most of your shirts are old I shall give you 6 new ones from Paul with the 6 new ones you have, With the best of the old ones I shall make you 6 night shirts; but sheets towells, tabel clothes you get from Bale, You must let them give you all those things just like an other brother Write only that you have 12 Shirts and three flanells ones 12 socks and 12 poket hankerchief. All that which you take to India must be new; for there they spoil the things so much in washing that old things would be of no use, you must not be so bescheiden before Bale but accept all just as the others, You will soon find out that things are different from what you expect, once there every one looks for himself and you would repent to have been so afraid to accept that which is due, it is not humility alone there is weakness in your feelings towards the comity. I was just like you; and I felt afterward that there is a sclavish spirit and without knowing it a false humility, Paul says the labourer is worthy of his lohn <hire>1. We must learn to take things from God or as from Him, and not be too humble before men. God takes you in His work and not men, be then not so thankful to men but to God, the devil cheats us; we must have to do with God, with Him is calmness, quietness, rest, always less wish to please men, but God alone. I take the liberty to speak so with you because I have been as you are and am still so too often I repent of it. With true love  Yours JG.

I send you 2 shirts of Paul to put on and three of yours too old to go to India, so send me all the others clean and dirty that I see how to manage 
Still something, our green boxes are two weak to make the journey to India Marie would have taken them if they had been strong enough. You must buy one in Stutgart some what like ours; perhaps learger, ask Grandmama or Mrs. Isenberg about it it must be strong Buy all that which you require on the Bale account, Your money you will be glad to have afterward do not use it to buy anything, You cost less to the Comity than anyone of the brethren and if you spare not buying the things here which are wanted you must pay the doubel there and that on your privat money, You will be astonish how it is, Samuel has found it difficult to manage. The dressing Gown you may ask GrossMama Mr Deumler has perhaps his there at all event she can tell you, As for the pentouffel you take the one you had from Jettle they are good for the rainy season. buy still one pair, perhaps you get 1 pair from somebody, the sock I send by Beisser if you send to B soonner Send one of yours the finest or from David. I shall come D.V. friday 21 so that I have time to pack your things, send me your wash by Beisser now the 8th send also your socks except those you require the time you are in Stutgart, and so all your shirts except what you want in Stutgart I have to mend them and see what you may take with you, the night shirts too, David has a learge box you may give him a paquet of yours in his
