Herrn H Gundert, Missionär, Bibelhaus, Stuttgart

 Rolle 21 juillet 46
Dear Papa.

Surely you will have said many times what the matter with Mama she does not write! It is not at all to spair your mony, if it was mine perhaps! Eight days ago I wrote a long letter which you should have recieved if the Lady had left Corcelles as she had intended but you shall have it some days later. My sister who has written this morning tells me that the little girls are very well. Marie sings "Maman viens et apporte une belle poup‚e, Christianely si tu n'est pas sage Maman ne t'apportera pas de poup‚e" DŠs qu'elle trouve un morceau de papier elle dit voila une lettre de Maman; elle y lit Si tu es bien sage je t'apporterai une poup‚e. Elle continue de se promener avec son grand'papa, aime la vigne; et elle mange des l‚gumes; ce qu'elle n'a pas fait jusqu'… cette heure. Christine … pouss‚ une dent d'oeil, elle tousse moins, elle commence … parler fran‡ais; ChŠre Uranie … soins d'‚crire trŠs souvent; elle souhaite que je reste ici longtems pour me reposer et jouir de ces chŠrs amis qui me traitent avec tant de tendresse; chaqu'un deux voudrait m'avoir pour me faire du bien. Demain mercredi, je ferai une course … G‚n‚ve avec Mr Rochat et d'autres amis nous partirons de bonne heure je passerai la journ‚e chez Mme de Watville que j'ai pr‚venue samedi; et nous reviendront le soir. Jeudi je passerai la journ‚e avec toute les soeurs qui sont invit‚es ici pour une Agape, on fait chercher en voiture celles qui sont ou trop loin ou trop ag‚es: Vendredi se passera chez Mr et Mme de la Morte des Amis Genevois qui vivent … une petite campagne prŠs dici. Lundi Dieu le voulant … Vevey chez Mme May qui revient aujourd'hui des bains, l… tu m'adressera ta prochaine lettre. Si en m'‚crivant tu pouvais me dire o– tu crois que je devrais passer l'hivert j'arrengerois mon s‚jour en cons‚quance dans le canton de Vaud: before you settle this you must consult with your mother, tell her every things. I expect an encrease of famely in March, I wish to be as quiet as possible till that time and if the Lord bring all right well I shall remain after, long time in my bed; as it will be perhaps the best mean for the complaint you know. Do you not think it would be too much for you Mother and Grand'mother to have such embaras dans la maison by the side of that dear old G. besides I think it would be easier to find … nurse in a village; of all this we shall speak together. I only mention it.

Do tell me when you intend to leave Europe? shall I see you for the last time in Ac.*? Let me not at all be in your way, do what you believe to be the will of the Lord without consid‚ration for me. if the Lord at the end of the next year bring me bac there to that beloved place I shall be truly thankful; his will be done in all things, to become poor and meak in our selves, and grow in the strengt of the Lord is our best. to be but as instument in the hand of our father is my great wish.

Les Dmes Duhner wish to know if you are well, if your cold is quite gone; and like wise dear papa Rochat who Salutes you affectioly, he never forgets you nor your children in prayers, in public and in particular. 
What are doing those dear children. Herman what language will you speak with mama, forget not I pray thee to pray God, to be made a good child. and learn well that you may after, help dear papa in India. And you dear Fatty Do bist ganse wol will du mir ein brief schriben Your sisters longue to kiss you, to see you, to show you their doll. she prays for you very often even in a day, she is very obediant to tante Uranie and grosspapa. When your names are spoken before Christiana she lestens and seams to remember your faces, then she moves her little feet as if she would go to meet you. You shall not be able to enderstand one an other, when you meet again. 
Adieu my dear sons, May the Lord bless you. Kiss for me dear Grand'Mama, papa, Maman Adolph, G, Em. Tante E. etc.

Forgive me dear papa to have delay so long to write; but you will soon see that it is not intentionaly, I promise you to be more ponctuelle, Salute all the dear people around you.

A description of your personne and of your way of traveling with a shirt in the poket, is the most amusing and edifying. Adieu dear papa thaks for all the news when you write to India salute them all
I am very nicely,
 Your aff wife
 J Gundert

