Frau H. Gundert, Bibelhaus, Stuttgart, frei

 Basel Friday 3 April <46>*
My dear wife

I have taken my time for writing, and beg your pardon for it - but it is difficult in a house like this to sit down to pen and paper. Saturday <28 Mrz>* night I arrived at the post, where friend Günzler was waiting for me. Sunday <29 Mrz>* evening Mögling arrived from a short excursion to Beuggen, where Zeller had his birthday celebrated - Monday <30 Mrz>* evening Miss-[ionar]y meeting Mögling and I spoke to a thronged assembly in the Elizabeth Church. To The Committee members I was presented Sunday evening: and dined on Tuesday <31/3>* with one of them Ryhiner, where Zeller also was present. He has counselled Gobat not to accept the offer of the Jerusalem bishoprick: I wish he would become bishop. In the night Möglg went away. Letters from India (Fritz) 3 marriages in Tellicherry amongst them Matthai (the others I suppose Xaver and Nathanael - but the names are not mentioned) - Lydia goes on pretty well. Titus and Eliza are truly growing and send love. Layer's have visited both Cann. and Tellich. Wednesday <1 April>* - saw Linder, our financial Committee member. In the evening the first audience before the Committee - questions about <many> things the C. Müllers are now definitively reunited with the Society - every thing that we can desire is in a fair way of being granted - All long to have you soon here to talk about your work. I ask a separate house for ourselves and girl's institution, in which case you would I think have no objection to take a helping Lady to yourselves, provided she be truly called by the Lord. Thursday <2 April>* - much with Hoffmann and the Diacon Linder, whom I like particularly - also president Laroche. Indeed I shall rejoice if you will soon be able to return with me to Switzerland. Tuesday <7 Apr>* evening I intend to depart for Zürich but will not write beforehand Thursday <9 Apr Gründonn>* I shall be obliged to speak at a meeting in Schaffhausen, from where Möglg has written.

It is not quite right that I receive no letters from Stuttg. I wonder how you all are: If well why not rejoice me with a word? Kiss the children, and ask them in my name to be patient and obedient. All what the boys and I want in the shape of shirts, beds etc ought to be considered and noted down I shall after my return send the list to Basle, from whence the auxiliary working Societies will be commissioned with the execution of the work. Your own wants will better be considered when present here. - Christ Sarasin with whom I dined today wanted me to visit Geneva with him on the 1st of May. but I declined as I will not speak in the Metropolis of Calvinism with my heavy French tongue. Love to Papa Mama and the children - take care of your health and pray for
 Your H.G.

