Monsieur Mr H. Gundert, Institution aux Missions, Bale

 Corcelles 25me juin <46>*
Lieber Mann

Many thanks for your well comed letter from Berne; but I am not satisfied as you do not say a word of your health. how ist your caugh, your chest? these news you should have written before any thing else.

Indid the babes with the mother said often where ist papa, after your departure. Marie looked through the window singing
__________________________________________________________, during half an houre she sang the same words then went off to meet you, now she has began to visit the school she likes it pretty well. Christiana accompanys her I was amused to see her playing with each of them, there are about thirty in a large bilding three rooms, when the little Christiana wishes to go out she crys chapeau. They will soon learn French being with so many children. 
I am very sorry you could not see dear Rosine Vaser. I should have sent her a letter through you; but have forgotten. Sunday I heard Mr. Chable meditating on the life of Jacob how much he had to bear for having decieved his father, I was much edified to hear him. but astonished to see so few people. I have began my lessons with his daughter Mlle Jelie*. I had a long letter from dear Marie <Monnard>* who wished to come and see me immidiatly, but I could not recieve her so soon on account of the viniards being not ended et our maladie of _________ I have asked her to come and bring me back to Rolle in the middle of the next mounth. She says in her letter she cannot wait for a moment to see me she is so full of love and feelings that I feel very cold by her. she can scarsely beleive she has seen you Oh what entousiasm in her expressions about our children and us both. I hope to spend some time with her. Mme May was also a little offended that I had not yet unswered her letter; now I have done it.

You will find the key of the trunk, swon on the leather on the strap wich fasen outside as you undo it under the buckle of iron.

Please to say to Mrs. Huber that I do not count to go to Bale before my return from le canton de Vaud. Say to the dear children I have been much pleased with their little letters I wish a longer one I shall also write once perhaps in german What will you say to dear papa and Maman of Stuttgard; many many things from their Julia - and the two petites filles. 
I have found some letters from my brothers you may read them in october. Uranie has made good friendship with the two Girls as soon as she comes C. runs to her crying chapeau then out must go.

I am such a poor writter I do not know what to say any more, every things goes pretty well here.

Papa, Uranie, Henriette, Chable, und you ____________________ les deux fillettes disent kisses to papa, et moi en demandant pardon pour une si mis‚rable lettre demeure ta femme
 Julie Gundert

