Madame Madame Gundert, Corcelles, prŠs Neuchatel, fco

 30 Nov 46.
Dear wife

You will now soon prepare to go to Basle as I see from your letter and I do therefore not think it necessary to write much, for I also have plenty to do to send all my things off in time that they may reach Marseille before our departure

Rochat's letter has given me joy. - But I wonder how you could wait with the manteau. I hope you do not think of taking the gown bought in Triest with you. Give it to your sister. A Cloak may always serve for something, but the other stuff will not stand an Indian climate. - Jane Müller who goes with us is a dear and simple creature. I am sure you will like her. Last Sunday I could not write because I was in Hebich's birthplace, Nellingen, to hold a Miss[ionar]y meeting. The minister who had invited me, was after all persuaded by unbelieving ministers not to hold the meeting, but as I came uninvited he gave me the Church and made it known also in adjoining villages and the place was quite full. I told them all about Hebich for 2 hours, and after all talked with the people before the Church to see if none had a mind to go out into the Miss[ionar]y field himself. But they said all it was too far; these mountaineers do not like even to marry into an other village, and have the Heimweh even when they change their dwelling to another street. - Did I write to you that they intend to build in Nettur a boy's institution. I like this as little as the Committee because then we shall be prevented from soon building a place in town or buying a house. However my letters of the 2 last months come perhaps in time to prevent it. Chr. says now "tes" for Kaes, "ott" for Grüss Gott - "mon" for guten Morgen. With Jette I have made an agreement that she is to write to us every month once, so that we receive letters from our children in regular intervals. - I have finished my last Miss[ionar]y prayer meeting in the Stadtkirche, today as on St Andrew's day. - I was again in Esslingen, saw my Grandmama who is looking well and who gave a little writing book for you. Natalie the old friend of Mary, is now changed into quite a new person and looks very bright. She has now got everything made new. - Mssrs Haeberlin arrived in Triest very ill and has now reached Kornthal. You know she is Mrs Blumhardt's sister. Her father was gone to meet her. Mr Kempter with whom I dined once in Triest had occasion to show much friendship unto her. I write these days to Triest to call us once more into their remembrance. - I had a cloak and many other things made for me, you will wonder when you see it. Herrm. was thankful for your letter. Today (Monday) the first snow! Adelheid Rothmund is engaged with a friend of mine, Römer, but her relations make as yet difficulties at least those who have the care of her fortune. My love to all dear people in the house and in Corcelles, Mr and Mme Grellet not to be forgotten
 Your H Gundert
