Madame Mme Gundert, aux soins de Mme May de Blonay, Vevay, Canton de Vaud, fco

 Stuttg 29 July 1846
My dear wife

Your letter of the 21st <und der vom 14.?>* has come to hand, that is to say has been sent after me on one of my excursions, opened and read by Papa according to his custom. I wished for a moment it had been written in Malayalam, but after all fear in such a case I might have waited for some months longer without receiving a letter, seeing that it gives you such an amazing deal of labour to write one in French or English. And what have you to do with Ladies so or so? Write with the post and regularly, or I loose every pleasure in corresponding with you. Even now, having been exactly 4 weeks without a line from you, though you had twice letters from me, I come to no details, because it is rather a task than a joy to repeat the doings of a whole month. If I had a letter every week you might get more news out of me, I assure you.

And now after the scolding I thank for the letter nevertheless. You say nothing of the time when you left Corcelles, so I am left to imaginations. But the great question is, what to do in case your expectations should be verified. Probably you like to hear of my ideas? I say that I recognize a duty in this, that if you are to be confined in Europe I must wait for you: for how would you alone travel and voyage with such a tender child, say of half a year? Now if God shows this necessity I am ready to stop a year longer. An other question would be: could we not perhaps hope for such a recovery of your strength that you might accompany me in time sufficient for an accouchement at Tellicherry. We might leave home about the end of Dec. embark in Marseilles beginning of Jan. reach Bombay 8-9 Febr and Tellich. before the end of the month. I say this chiefly with regard to such things as a nurse, milk etc. After all these things are not decided in a moment, Mengert's child suffered from the overland journey, Weitbrecht's passed through it very well. But let us pray for God's guidance in the matter and cast aside all apprehensions.
On the 12 and 13th of July Victoria Kegel, the Candidate for the Ladies Mission was with me very modest and pleasing, and I have written to the Committee to employ her. Perhaps they send her to us over the winter to learn English etc in Company. But I suppose till now she is meant for Lehner's. Did you ever hear that my parents would feel inclined to propose Rösle, the songstress of the kitchen to accompany us in such a situation? What would you think of it?

The 15th till 18th I might <made>* a journey with Papa and the 4 boys, also through Plochingen where we found Mrs Kaiser exceedgly glad of the grandson in Nettur. Also the postkeeper's were very friendly. Then I went to help Bührer to his dear bride, Miss Sophie Hochstetter. She will do very well for him: I was glad to be able to hasten the settling of the affair. She and her father (a minister, my dear friend) are quite decided and the mother has at last acceded. They were sorry not to meet you.

The 20th professeur Wagner departed for Neuchatel with recommendations from me to Chable etc - The 21st in Esslingen where a niece of Selma was buried. to Göppingen. - 22d to Amstetten where Mrs Binder wishes to be most kindly remembered to you. She is very well but the children are still deaf and there is no change. Her husband rather weak. to Nellingen, Hebich's birthplace - Ulm, meeting etc - Göppingen Missionary feast and much conversation with Müller's and Greiners - Schorndorf, where I had also work - this morning I returned hither and thank the Lord for all his kindness. 
Herrm. and Samuel are very well behaved - Your letter rejoiced them exceedingly: "Marie spricht jetzt französisch, was soll ich dann zu ihr sagen?" Their vacation is over. I have now promised them to visit Corcelles about the 30th Sept or 1st Oct. You may fancy their joy.

Give my cordial salutations to Mme May, Marie etc Mama and Grandmama and all join in Selaming you with
 Your Hermann G.
Frederick Müller has written "all well, Paul rejoices the heart as often as one sees him - he has suffered some time from a beating of the Mapillas. Paul's brother is more friendly. Cornelius is housefather in the poorhouse - Irion's son Christian Frederick.

