Madame Mme Gundert, Corcelles, Neuchatel, fco

 Stuttg. 1 Sept 1846
Dear wife

Yesterday morning I was visited by Mlle LaRoche, whom you saw at Basle She came with Julie Blumhardt, the daughter of the late Inspector and brought me an extract of your letter to Mme Huber, concerning Mlle Thalie Pasche chez Mme Ausset Offre … Vevay. (NB. Are you sure that the names are written properly? I can hardly believe it). I knew nothing from you directly. but in the evening came your long expected letter. Thanks for all the news: but especially thanks to the Lord that he so kindly renews your strength and hope.

Now to the answer: The thought of the Nilagiri gave me pleasure because it shows that you do not mind any more a little journey in addition. We shall come to a determination when the proper time has arrived. The irreparable loss of Mr de Rodt is for me difficult to be understood "ayant perdu leur chŠre" whom? perhaps "mŠre" -, but the Noun is nowhere to be seen. - That was well done to oblige those Ladies of 4 denominations to come together and do something in common - only I fear the tender consciences will after some time not permit them all to continue in such a mixture of creeds. Meanwhile it was right to show them that one might meet in such a way. But how do you write the names? (f. i. Mauhl for Mohl, Hairing for Häring, Bonzon for Bonson etc) Learn to be a little more exact among such linguists as Mme Couvreu seems to be. If all what you tell of her is true, she is a miracle. And yet I can not see how I should find time to go once more to Vevay to thank all those dear people for the friendship they have shown to you. - Well you have returned to Corcelles: if the children have no more known you what will they do if I come with their brothers. I suffer with you by their illness, but am thankful to Uranie that she did not let you know beforehand how they are. I believe that the best we can do is, you return with me and the children for a shorter or longer stay here, as soon as we have settled that we shall return to India together. I shall therefore only send or bring to you the flanel bleu et noir, with what Maman will purchase. With what will you make des robes aux petites? avec "le _______ qui est vieux" - What word this is I could not make out, and can also not bring the stuff with me except you tell me what you meant. One or two mats shall likewise accompany me.

You have put me in the greatest suspense by one word in your letter: you say Mme Cummin writes not many news "Mme Irion and Müller sont mŠre (I suppose, they are two and therefore mŠres) tout va bien" - Couldn't you think that this is perhaps the most important news for me, if Mme M. in Tell. is meant. I can hardly fancy that Mrs C. writes of the sister in Hubly whom she has never seen; I therefore must really beg you to tell me soon, if it is our Mrs M. that has a child. Do not forget this nor postpone a letter for weeks. For I am now decided to come as soon as you tell me the grapes are ripe. God's blessing to your cure. (NB. I know that Mrs Müller's confinement was expected in July: but would not tell you of it, because the prospects which the Cannanore Dr gave were very dreary. Mrs Müller had also written to Basle that the Wests and the Dr had been extremely kind to her.) 
Catharine Pfleiderer from Möttlingen has also come to visit you. you remember she had Selma's illness. But now - after having been confined to the bed for 7 1/2 years she works in the field, has assisted in the harvest and praises God for what he has done.

On the 23d I preached here in the St Leonhard Church and the day following we had the Miss[ionar]yfeast, when I had likewise to speak. - I have already somebody in my mind for Fred. Müller, but it is not decided. Of Miss Kegel you will know that she is to join the Lehner's at Honore (for Layer is obliged by illness to return to Dharw.) - The figures of castes etc I have at last sent to the king and asked for an audience, but no answer as yet. Perhaps he has no time to see me, as he will leave this in a short time for the autumnal manoeuvres. - I just returned from the king, who was very gracious in the halfhour from 4 to 4 1/2, much interested in the castefigures, and inquiring after our work, friends, hopes of return etc. I am however glad that this also is over. God be praised and may he use it all to his glory!
 Your HG.

Kiss the dear children. Samuel Herrm are most obedient and nice 
