Frau Gundert, bei Fr Pfr Huber Schnell, Basel $.#$

 Stuttg 15 Oct 1846
My dear wife

You have done well to write to me so soon. I also thought you would feel the separation much more than you could imagine beforehand, but one day all this will be well. I dont like to make to myself thoughts beforehand on the subject. - I send today the pieces of cloth for Marie's robe to Mrs Ostertag. the currystuff separately: for you do not tell me to whom to send, to Mrs Huber or to Mrs Ostertag, greet them and their families all most heartily from me, and give orders to Mr Baeschlin, to whom I wrote yesterday about your things, what all you want, say also the Nachtsack which I forgot: and give orders to whom to send the currystuff. - You have sent Christianely's gown but only with one sleeve, and the additions to the trowsers are likewise wanting; are they lost, or somewhere else? - I wonder that you go into the Saturday's evening-hour. It is not for people like you. - I wonder you do not go oftener to Marie. in your place I would go every day, what can the people think otherwise but that you are her mother? is not that reason and excuse for all you may do with her; and I see no ground why you should not stay a little longer even, and see the brethren Mögling, Bühler etc, give them letters for India, and have some of the things we want bought and if you want yet to make a visit here, take second place on the railroads and come from Carlsruhe per post, and you would not feel the motion too much. I dont say this to tempt you that you walk twice over the ground already passed through, but merely to encourage the thought, if it should come to you. But I wish especially, you would ask Mr Baeschlin to advise and help you about the things we want. - Write Leubaz, not Leuba. - Christ Herm and Sam were yesterday (Wednesday) in the Herbst, … la vigne; Chr. is very well, eating and drinking comme il faut, and crying "en bas" till she is permitted to go downstairs. Herm always remembers that you ordered him to take care of her - both boys are exceedingly gentle with her - yesterday their lessons began again. Ernst is very kind to all the three. It is a joy to me to see him still so childlike. Theodor sends you also Selam. I shall no more visit him I suppose. Write to me to whom I may send yet more Currystuff. On Sunday I have to preach in Leonhard's Church. - Emma is still working on her husband's mind to permit her to take Christ. if he at last permits it (at present he fears her merely as a Missionary's child, which would require most pious care) I believe she will be in good hands, and nothing is to be said against it. Meanwhile we will wait and pray for all the dear ones - Kiss Marie
The children salute
 Thy H. Gundert
