Monsieur Gundert, Missionnaire, aux soins de Mme May … Vevey. 
 Corcelles 9*me juin <46>*
Dear Papa.

I hope this little note will find you in Vevey you will have had one in Rolle. so you must confess that I am a faithful wife.

Now I hope you will manage to return as to spend here at least 10 days, my dear old father was very sorry not to see you in going. I trust you have news from papa and what is doing samuel I pray? The next day of my arival my sister knew we had the same sickness as Samuel; Marie is coverte of it and my two Sisters and the son too from us. I have began to try to cure us and I hope it shall not be very long, the medicines are rearley when you come too, Please write to us and chifly try to come to remain here a certain time. We have to visit many placess toguether from here. I had Yesterday the pleasure to see Mrs. Huber with the dirrector of Montmiral, she drunk coffee with us and was very amiable, he invites you strongly to go there for a visite I have nearly promised for us both.

Christianely is again uneasey. I think she has the same complaint as Us. 
You will hear in Vevey at what time it would be more convinnint for me to go there, after Basle of course. I long to hear how you did like your visits. I forgot to beg you to buy me in Geneva a dictionary Frenche and English. thanks for the book you left a Michaux's house. I am yet tired from the jurney what must you be you dear man who have now been so long traveling. I have not yet began to learn any thing; it shall come I hope. Now adieu till we have the pleasure to cry, there is papa this day is not very distant I hope. Accept the greetings of all my parents. tell many things to dear Marie I hope to see her

May the Lord bless you and make you a blessing for maney.
Yours aff
 Julie Gundert

