Madame Gundert, Corcelles, Neuchatel, fco

 Basle Samedi 27 June [1846]
My dear wife

Monday the 22d in all haste to the poste - in the evening I was in Zürich. I had first a nice then most miserable radical and infidel compagnons, therefore a hard struggle you cannot believe how meanly they spoke against our Lord! - 23d I stopped in Zürich to hold a Miss[ionar]y meeting as is the custom every quarter of the year. Visited Huber's relations. In the evening on the steamboat to Staefa. I tried at first the 2d place but there were on account of the rain too many people. So I went happily to the first, where I found my brother with his whole family just returning to their home from an excursion. - the whole 24th I spent with them. But there is neither faith nor repentance. The Lord will have to take stronger measures with them, I fear. In the night to St Gallen, where 25th we celebrated the Miss-[ionar]y feast. There I spoke for an hour. Spleiss our dear Papa of Schaffhausen spoke twice forenoon and evening - about the Scriptures the light on our path. The assembly was much greater than at Geneva. Peasants came from afar: it is quite a Swabian place, hardly to be called Swiss. Graf from Sierra Leone returned just this day he asked also after you. I liked him more than 11 years ago. Spleiss seeks a bride for Bührer. - the 26th über <over> Constanz to Schaffhausen and in the night to Basle where I arrived this 27th morning. Mögl und Anandrao are returned, after they had finished the type business in Paris. Mr Jaquet from Glay payed me a visit - nice man indeed - he hopes perhaps to visit Neuchatel. Barth also arrived - and Bühler. Mrs Sick - Missionary Wolters from Smyrna with wife, a great assembly - Mglg hopes surely to return in Oct to Mangal. after having in August visited London with the Inspector. Gobat has found many enemies. The famous Jewish Missionary, Wolf, of whom we heard so much in India, has been so angry that he was not made bishop, that he said all sorts of calumnies about Gobat. Yet will he have been consecrated this Sunday.

For the dinner I received your welcome letter. My health is much better since I travelled so much we had some rain and therefore less dust on the streets and roads. It is very fine that M. goes to school. Tell her much love from her Papa: and so to dear Christiane. You may indeed be astonished to see so few people with dear Chable. But so it seems nearly everywhere very little inquiry for the word of God. Why not let Marie Monnard come to you? I am sure she might easily take care of that _________________________ - The trunk has not as yet come, neither do I want it. I hope I shall easily find the key -

Only rest yourself and instead of asking after my health say how is yours? You forgot mentioning it likewise. With greetings from little Herm. Mögling and all - recommending you to God's fatherly love and care, and saluting dear Papa Uranie, Fillinguer's and Chable
 Your faithful
 H G.

Günzler left this morning for Stuttg - Mrs Huber I have not seen as yet. Jaquet greets most heartily

Insp Hoffm thinks Mrs Fritz's Sister <Köbele>* is sure for Fred Müller, Mglg does not think so having seen them lately

I shall stop here about 7 days

Tell Mr Thomas in Yverdun that I could by no means find a Zollikofer in St Gallen that has been in India. I asked in many places in vain. 
