Madame Madame Gundert, chez Mme Huber-Schnell, Basle, fco

 Stuttg. 11 Oct 1846.
My dear wife

The Lord has graciously brought us to the end of our journey - in exactly 23 hours. After the one word … revoir, Mama - Christianely mentioned you but once during the course of the day, and in going into the carriage she said as soon as seated - __________________ - Herm and Sam. were serious, chiefly as the noise of the french railroad did not permit of my telling them stories. Already 10 1/2 we were at Strasburg - 11 3/4 at Kehl. There was no time for dining - we drank water (and I bier) - the Wurst was already eaten on the french territory, but I gave bread with the preserve - took the 2d place on which one sits as on a sopha. there I had to tell stories till Carlsruhe, Chr slept visited by flies which licked the remainder of the preserve from her face. Samuel also took some rest. - In Carlsruhe they drank new wine, which they decreed was made of grapes - I drank the old. The omnibus from 4 evening - 5 morning was horrible beyond any I was in, and am now determined to have nothing any more to do with it, on account of health and rest of the mind. As much time as I could spare of the troubles of travelling, I employed in praying for you that you may have a good day after the bitter hour of farewell, and that this day may be to you as an earnest of many to come - I mean days not of exquisite delight, but of comfort from on high, of rest in God, of great and bright hopes from Him. It struck just 5, when we went over the Königsstrasse, Christianely continually smiling, as if she knew the town. Herm. and Sam carried the basket together. We awakened first Gottlieb who opened the house. Sam and Herm of course made noise sufficient to awaken the neighbours, much more Gustav and Adolphe, who were sleeping with Ernst. As it is the habit of the house, to see many members of the family on Sunday, I received already many lamentations on account of your not coming, kind inquiries after you, congratulations for the good appearance of the boys and the stout shape of Christiane. Also Marie was not forgotten - they thanked God that she submits so quietly to the separation. Ernst, Jette, Adelheid Ro...nd <Rothermund>* etc salute most heartily.

Your picture on the daguerrotype was pronounced to be inimitable. You will soon write to me and tell me how you and dear Marie are going on. Today I suppose you are with her. - (My father in confidence said, he confessed that your remaining at Basle was the wiser way, though a real sacrifice!) May the Lord in his pardoning grace be pleased with us and let his countenance shine on us! With love from all
 Yours ever
 H Gundert
at 6 o'clock, evening!

