Madame Madame Gundert, … Corcelles. prŠs Neuchatel

 Stuttg 29 Oct <46>*
My dear wife

You have again waited a fortnight before writing! But you say, you had written long letter - why not send it to me, no matter what its contents might have been? I knew well it would cost you a great deal to leave the children so long before your departure, and also doubted if after all you would not have to return to Basle for starting with the company. In this case the difference would not have been great between a journey to Neuchatel and one to Stuttg. if only you would allow people to press you in vain for visiting them: it is not quite right that you undertook so many visits. Take rest, this is your best exertion and the duty you owe to us all. - It is of no use now to lament about the cloak. how could you fancy that my mother would know all. Surely she did it better, than I could have done it: but your mind runs too quickly into all these details of manteaux etc - I shall send the cloak to Marie if I do not forget it: for as it is once here, why not leave it to Christiane. My parents will now keep her, without money from the society: Emma wished much to have her, but my father does not like the idea of sending her to that house and demands her for himself. When I am gone, the 3 children will be told to say Mama and Papa instead of Grand P. etc. - Quant … Mlle L. je savais bien qu'elle est dans l'age critique: mais est ce que cela sera chang‚ dans une ann‚e? Je crains qu'elle ne vienne jamais. Quant … la Kegel je l'aimerais bien pour nous; mais tu sais que quant aux frŠres ce n'est pas la mˆme chose … cause de son age. - Mögling ne sait pas davantage du voyage en Janvier ou Decembre que toi et moi: ainsi nous nous passerons de sa raison. La future Mme Müller ne sera guŠre prete au commencement de Decembre. Ainsi je pense que nous nous verrons encore une fois … Bale soit le 24me de Decembre et passerons l… Noel et un ou deux jours aprŠs - si l'on ne peut pas trouver une sure methode de se rencontrer … Corcelles o— dans la France.

Les enfans sont trŠs joliment. Hermann surtout garde bien tout ce que l'on lui dit et raconte bien les histoires bibliques aussi s'observe t'il bien du doigt de Dieu dans les contes qu'il entend. Samuel est bien drole et ne se soucie pas trop de toutes les separations. Christiane prononce bien de fois le mot Mama et semble te reconnaitre dans le daguerrotype: mais elle est satisfaite de ma pr‚sence et de celle d'Hermann, qui se souvient toujours de son devoir de l'aider et de la garder. Les deux gar‡ons ont ‚t‚ hier avec moi … Sindelfingen pour un anniversaire Miss. - Irion a ecrit … la fin et sa lettre est bien interessante pour les details qu'il y donne. Je t'envois celle de sa femme que tu pourras faire traduire pour toi - aussi Mattu a ecrit. La chose qui me rejouit le plus est la conversion de quelques relations (parens) de Paul, sa mŠre etc. Quoique ƒg‚e de 70 ans elle se r‚jouit comme un enfant. - La mere de Rachel est dans la cuisine et donne beaucoup d'ennui. Aussi R. n'est pas toujours brave. Et Dorcas n'a pas encore mari‚ parceque Xaver se montre de tems … tems indigne de confiance. Joseph a ‚t‚ bien "dark" … cause des grands salaires qu'il a vus, … Bombay etc … present il est plus content. Baker seems to be contented with his position as waterman in Christian's house. Theodor is to embark in a ship to Arabia to pilgrimage to Muhamed's tomb. - You know perhaps already that the Comm. has given me liberty to spend 3000 Rs for a house either to buy or to build - in the same letter there is also a permission to send Marie to Ostertag's - for which I had asked in the last Committee meeting (Wednesday) but could of course not wait for the answer a week or more, when the child was to be put with them on Thursday and myself to leave Basle within 2 days. All this is quite in order. But you seem still easily shocked with some things that sound like bad news? I hope and pray that the Lord strengthen you both in body and soul, that you may pass more unconcerned through all the conflicting words, advises and events around you. Greet all the dear friends with whom you are in Bale or Corcelles. - Must I repeat it again, that I wish you to write once every weak? Could you not tell to other people to leave you alone when you have to converse with your husband? But I thank you for the long letter (for that written to Jette I took and opened likewise) - only know that I like to have letters more quickly dispatched than is possible in your way. Every Thursday letters are sent to St. from the Missionhouse. So you may send what has no haste on Tuesday to Bale and from there it will come on in time - Now farewell - parents and children all salute from the hearts as well as thy husband  HGundert.

