Madame Madame Gundert, Corcelles, prŠs Neuchatel

 16 Nov. 46
My dear wife

Many thanks for the news you gave me of being happier in your mind. I sometimes fear still that the change from Europe to India will be too great a one in your delicate state of feeling and therefore I wrote to you to consider if you ought not to stay 1/2 year longer. If God gives to you the courage then I doubt not you will be able to go through. But in this I beg you to spare yourself do not speak of courage if you do not feel it and seek rather for health at home where you can still run to your children, than in our future solitude of India. - Chr. is beloved by all, she is mad of Nanele, and calls her Na-Na; quite vain of her new clothes, you may imagine how she shows them; she goes to bed with a "ut Nat" = good night, says adda for adieu and joins her arevoir. pain is brr, eau = enen: chair = dada: in seeing pictures she likes to imitate all noises of animals, and when she sees a new one she wants from me to hear what voice it has and then tries to call it by that sound. The geese in the house amuse her particularly. - The Jane Müller for Fr Müller is now permitted to go, of which I am very glad - as a delay of a year could have materially changed all their prospects. If you have not yet written to Tellich. please add this news. Tomorrow (17 Jany <Novbr>*) her father will come here and give me his Yea in person. The Lord will honour her I am fully persuaded: she is very laborious and quite simple; withall able to learn, though not yet much instucted. Now I know that she comes with me I shall tell Mr Sarasin that I should think it strange to take a help to Tellich. that cannot but be a long time of little use, whilst Honore has so much more need of assistance. May the Lord bring it all aright. Si ta chere tante est encore entre lui, dis lui que je lui souhaite l'abondance de la paix dont elle se rejouit: le bon berger ne cessera pas dˆtre avec elle. Il est fidele.
<My dear Mama Today I have been not very happy is the school. three boys have come over me because they knew better to connt>1 than I. Papa was yesterday in Esslingen to preach, and because we behaved well we got each one a Kreuzer.

<Grüß Gott lieb>e2 Mama
 Dein Samuel

They have made a fine nonsense with ruling and writing. Isn't it. Greet all.
 Yours H. Gundert

