 Rolle 14 juillet 1846

Dear Pappa.

Many thanks for your dear lettre which has found me with the good friends of R. in the very little room were you have been. I have come hear sooner than I expected at first. Dear Mary Monnard came one day without permission saying "je n'y tiens plus il faut que je vous voye" my poor father who does not like visites was rather astonished as I had written her to wait till the middle of july. Enfin she spent 9 days with us and we left together Corcelles and with the steamer went till Lausane, where each of us went to his place; she wished me to go immidiatly with her; but I felt my duty to go first to R. and more so since Mme May is aux bains for a fort night and I can not leave the Canton de Vaud without spending with her at least 12 days else she would be offended.

I did not like to leave the dear children chiefly on account of dear Christiana who cough much I fear it is the coqueluche I had many bad nights with her before I left, but I was so tired that dear Uranie had already took my charge with her; she writes me twice a week I heard this morning the dear girls are pretty well she says; Marie is very found of grosspapa she makes promenade with him … la vigne au jardin, she does not like any more the school but she very willingly says her letters to tante Uranie whom she loves dearly; when they pay a visit to Henriette Marie keeps Uranie by the hand saying allons vite chez grand papa. Christianaly cougfs yet; but sleeps and eat nicely, she hangs her self to Uranie saying chapeau, then out must got. She seams to be better than she was when I left, the 3d of this mounth I hope to return before the middle of the next mounth, and if the children were not well I would go immidiatly. You may continue to adress your letters to Corcelles they will send them with … word. You have not told me when you hope to return to India and Mr Mogling is it this year or the next? The Lord will manage the whole affair. I am not very well but I think it has to do with a piculiar state which I shall know more surely, after a few weeks.

Mr Rochat sends you his best salams he loves you and prays for you often. he wishes you would take care of your health and buy an ombrella to preserve you from the heat and rain; he has been much pleased of your visit. Im truly glad and thankful for these few weeks I am able to spend here. they do all what they can to help and please me each of them would have me in his house. Mr. R. invites me often for dinner. I shall spend a day in Geneva before long I hope. Dear Mary has written me twice since I am here. 
Please to excuse me to Miss Ensley for having not written and enswered her excellente letter to me with the little book; but I am very idle and chiefly I try to keep as quite as possible. I have tried the bains du lac; but they do not agree at all with me for the present.

Please to explain to cosin Ensley what kind of foot has Mr Hebich. I thinks it is quiet as large as yours if it is not longer even.

Tell the dear boys what joy people here would have to see them every one aske after them Mlle Ruyna* regrets exceedingly not to have seen you she would have the children she does all what she can to make me confortable and at home. I should not like to stay to long here for they spoil me with cares. but I have also some what for my soul, truly there is a good food to help one to grow in the Lord. The 15the I have just recieved your kind letter truly I am thankful to you; please be not offended if I do not ensewer every time. I have to write to Uranie twice a week about the little ones. You may ad your next letter chez Mme May … Vevey. Mr R te salue et les soeurs Duhner en t'envoyant le passage du first chronicles 28 - verse 20. forgive dear Lord-ship this stupid letter: I can not even promise a better one. Monday I hope to go to G. I did not stop at Iverdon. I shall write Miss Waser

Adieu cher papa ton aff
 Julie Gundert

