Madame Madame Gundert, Corcelles, prŠs Neuchatel

 Stuttg. 8 Nov. 46
My dear wife.

I received today a letter from the Committee concerning your trouceau, for which they will spend as for each wife 1000 fcs de Suisse. Tell me if I can buy you anything of the list, which they sent me.

The other letter is from Mr Sarasin and reports about Leubaz add[in]g about the Kegel, that they hope she will become for us a very "brave help" - he farther says, that among all the Ladies there was only one voice: that you ought to take a longer rest in Europa, and he promised the Ladies to ask me in their name, if your departure could not be retarded. - Now what shall I say to this? Should you think it right on account of your health to postpone the journey till Sept. or Oct next year; please take a resolution to that effect; visit us in Stuttg as soon as possible and stay here till May, then you may see how to spend the summer to most advantage. The Lord will also help with the little one, on the journey and on the sea. But if you come to a determination, fixed and steady to go with me now, write so to me, that I may also speak freely in your name. - I have now found a lady for Albrecht, it went very quickly, a Miss Hüttenschmid, who will also go with us. I am glad that she offered herself for Mission service so I was under no necessity to praise Albr. to her and to recommend him. The Lord be gracious unto them! - The future Mrs Müller has not yet written! how long they are! - Christianele talks now much in her own way - not very intelligible to others: but she is cunning. Marie will receive Natalie in a new very improved edition and the cloak too. Irion has written again - In Anjerc is Abel's wife dead, she about whom the great quarrel of Micha‰l with the Masters began She has died repenting and sure of her pardon. - Irion builds a boyschool opposite our house entrance Brennen gave 100 Rs to it Forsyth 200, Harrison 60, Gage 50. Mrs Müller is much better - the 2 infants in excellent health. Theodor has gone by ship to Arabia. - Hermann is full of affection for you. Samuel speaks less; he plays always with the play, which consists in putting together the pieces of a picture drawn on paste board and sawn asunder. Herm. amuses himself with shooting (without powder). Chr. is always with Nane who has a childish joy with her. Thank also my parents that they will take her. Saluting you and yours  Your HGdt

