Madame Madame Gundert, Corcelles, prŠs Neuchatel

 <6 Decb 46.>*
My dear wife!

Again it is a long time that I did not hear from you; I wonder if you are already in Basle? Mörike is now in Dharwar and better, Lehner not as yet in Honore, rather ill: Sutter will pass the winter in the Mediterranean. Hebich has baptized 10 heathen, his 2 soldiers are now free from the Military and have commenced their studies in Cherical, one is already married with a Hindu Christian woman. I shall be glad when we see them again at work. Last week I was in Tubingen to take farewell and also to see if none of the students there will follow me. I had nice meetings there with several classes of people, also with schoolgirls in the room where I taught 12 years ago. Just on the day when I wanted to visit him, Hornung an old Christian who had often edified us when on the University died ___ with great joy. The children were meanwhile much rejoiced by a fall of snow (Friday - Saturd) you may fancy how they now on sledges ride down the whole hill of our street. Also Christ. is continually troubling Nane "hotto" that is "ride", she does not mind the cold if only she can go in a sledge. Samuel is very happy with it likewise: and they think this a mighty preference of Stuttgart over India. I wonder how we shall find Marie I hope the winter will do her a great deal of good brace her nerves and make her at the same time more tame and glad of playing in the room. My brother Ludwig was here perhaps I wrote it already. He told us among other things that he is freemason, for which I am very sorry. - Ernest has sent me from Maulbronn 2 long poems which my old servant there, the Underfamulus, has made on my return to India. Ernst will come here in about a fortnight and then I hope to see him once more: in 9 months he will leave Maulbr and come to the University, so I have already asked friends there to have an eye on him and seek to profit him by every possible means. Nothing new but that I again this evening must hold a Missionary meeting. And now farewell dear wife with true love
 Your HGundert

Hebich has written to the Committee they ought on no account to send you back before a couple of years (!)

When you come to Basle you will hear that they have made a noise from India, that they will have no female teacher. But it is all in vain to think of breaking off the plan with Victoria Kegel, and I have - upon a new question from the Committee - offered myself to take her with us. But when we come to Tell. we shall see to get as soon as possible our housekeeping and these things all separate - that is to say, we and the Kegel together, and the Müllers as they may like, with us or with Irion's or alone. Only I am determined not to have all this mass of households in one cake. - 
When you go to Ostertags you will hardly be able to speak with Marie, she talks all German, and expects you already, because one had told her, with the snow Mama will come - I hope you are well - the children could not write - the time did not reach, because I was delayed by visits. How is your dear aunt.

Greet Papa, Uranie Henriette and Fritzle also Mme Grellet heartily  from Yours HG.
71 Dec 1846.

