is given up; that only would grieve him, if he now should observe a change in the minds and faces of many that are dear to him and to whom he is indebted in the Lord. I cannot see through the whole question regarding money: Rh. tells me that the London Missionaries have not to give any account of what they get in private way. So Rh. got a considerable sum from Count Dohna in Prussia - if he had laid it up for his children, who could have accused him: Count D. wrote expressly to him it's for his own private use: - but now he has bought land from it, to give it to persecuted native Christians that they might settle on it - and men cry out against it, as worldly machinary etc. Surely the confidence between Societies and agents will not cease by the latter having and getting money for their private use: and if they spend it for the Lord a Gospel Society ought to rejoice and not to ask accounts. But Rh. gave accounts even of these contributions. Only when asked once to give the money itself into the treasurer's hand he protested: and said if they want him to do this he will not even give the accounts: it was referred to the Home Committee and the Society did not trouble him farther. Nor was there in the beginning any understanding to this effect it was only introduced by the decreasing confidence between Societys and their "servants". Rh. went out on an understanding similar to that of Schwartz: therefore when he got money from you who declared you would not give it to the Society, he intended to give account of it only to you and to the Lord. It is indeed easily said: that Rh. ought only to have staid with the people and not with the stuff. But what is this stuff? the means for spiritual instruction. Rh. and the brethren assure me that they have given it up altogether: but as they could not presume in the beginning Mr P. and T. would be so injust as they afterwards proved, he began a communication with P. to the effect of separating quietly what the peoples was and what the Missions. For it is not a right thing, to have so many Congreg. and Catech. and Children at once without Schoolrooms, Chapels, and especially without books. The latter had been given by the Bible Society: yet all these were at once taken away - without asking either Rh. or people or bible Soc. and so all the other things. Rh. and the people have endured this without complaints in the Court. But the desire of the other party was manifestly the same, which the Portuguese exercised against the Syrians on the other coast, to bring at once a double famine, of bread and of Gods word on them (for this reason the Catechists also were so often and so long detained in the Court) that wearied and starved they might at last comply with the new sheepfold. And now they are not ashamed to call themselves robbed of some books and ironpens etc. I feel that great grace has been manifested by the people in general, to endure so much quietly. And Rh. is rejoicing that they have had this grace: yet as soon as any communication with the Ch M S would be opened as with brethren, he would feel it his bounden duty as before the Lord, to mention them those things whereof his people had unjustly be deprived and to receive them if they are willing to give them, but not to complain if they give them not. He also would say and really says to Cat. and Congr: give all up - whether just or unjust - do not resist evil: but he would also not need lessly increase the trial of so many beginners and weak members of Christs body so far as to give up without first asking and mentioning what they feel a right to all theirs. And the other party, being comprehended under the same* name of Christians, wants also to be instructed in such details that they may look with more repentance on their former deeds. However all hope of an agreement seems again gone, as Appleg. behaved himself in Sch's last visit at his house so childishly, railing and spitting at Mission, Catechists, language etc without any knowledge of these things. When he defended the Church quite furiously, Mrs Appleg. said quietly: I stand for the Dissenters. P. had been with him that whole day, but hid himself when Sch. came. Now they go to the hills. Mrs A. is deeply afflicted by this causes: she expected when coming out - trials from without, but an unreserved love between all Missionaries in recompense: now she is undeceived. -
Tinnevelly. I arrived here Sundy morning (21 Aug 1836), strengthened especially on the last stage of the way by the conviction that I am in the Lord's path and seek nothing for myself. Br Lechler was the first whom I saw: undressed he came to greet me, and took me into his room, to exchange the first questions. A letter from Mr Gr. had caused some surprise: wherein he had blamed L. as dishonestly inviting me to Tinnev. and had expressed his wish that the 2 younger brethren might be any where else, than here in opposition to the Society. Question: are you come to spy? Yes - if you have nothing to conceal before me, you would do best to permit me looking into these things. - Most heartily. - Br Rh. came to fetch me for breakfast: before br. prayers. He questioned his children about the prophet whom he was about to read (Hosea) about the state and king of Juda at that time, and many other little things: the children answered cheerfully. All was done in great simplicity. At breakf. questions arose about the present state of things in Germany, wherein R took a most interested part. Morning service in the schoolhouse: the black boys all ready to answer and to ask whatever was proposed to them, without the least constraint. After noon something about the famous cause: Rh's expressions appeared to me rather strong but the matter, he defended, just and plain. As I felt the great temptation to justify ourselves when our cause seems righteous I made use of the offer of an evening service which they made to me, to read and to explain something of Christ's humiliation in its deepest and most secret glory: I trust the Lord has shewed something of his beauty to me and to others; Dear Schaffter exhibited to me the most striking features of a true walker after Christ. Before and after service he expressed his inclination, to loose rather of his right in all and every thing, than to do a little wrong, sinning against the merit and the ensample of our Lord. The others had reason to warn him, never to confound principles and temporal rights. - [<This day we had in our Society Mr Kholoff's son, a mighty hunter. It was extremely interesting, to hear Rh. speaking with him, ever mingling love and irony, reproof and encouragement in their true measures. he wants him to help the Mission, especially as he knows Tamil already and has some idea of hunting: Both he said would be of the greatest use to him and to them. The youth said I donot yet like it: but we saw that he likes at all events father Rh. On Monday he left, seeking another quarter of chasing. ->]1 Mr Carstairs' exertions for peace were blessed so far, that Mr Blakmann met Sch. and L. privately to consult about terms of agreement. Rh. had given his view: Never to send a Catechist in a divided congregation to the Minority, but to invite the latter to withdraw to another village. But the Ch M S. being afraid lest they loose more and more people if choice if left free, endeavour to bring such a regulation to pass, that no party will receive somebody or some Congregation of the other party after a certain length of time (they propose 3 months). To this Sch. would consent. Rh and the 2 others say this would be sacrifice of principle: therefore they only declared, that they will not receive any person from the other party without previous communication with them. P's declaration that he will receive no communications whatever from a man like Rh. was called by Bl. a foolish business. Rh. made it a matter of course, that, should any agreement take place, P. must first withdraw this letter of his. - The great fruit of the meeting was, that they had seen one another and got more confidence in one another's face. Tuesday already Applegate came to pay a visit and appeared very friendly. Thursday they had a second meeting with Mr Appl. also Mr Bl. was present. They said that they hope they will yet like one another though living in the same spot. Mrs Appl's sickness seemed to be derived from the whole sad affair. A and B. proposed S and L. to write once more to the Comm. and when our brethren said how and what they have written in their last letter and consequently wished rather one of the Ch. Missionaries to write these Seemed afraid to interfere with Mr P's and T's peculiar business. Wednesday evening I was with R. in Tinnevelly. We sat on chairs before the house: Soon people assembled and conversations with children and their idolatrous parents ensued. After about half an hour we went into the schoolroom (which is the Chapel in the same time): and had evening service. People are very attentive, and ask all what they do not fully understand. - It was on Friday evening I witnessed the first private meeting of the 4 Missionaries to consult about the state of things. R. indeed is a man of business, who can keep all the little accounts and things that were done and are to be done, in such a clear and perspicuous order, that little times suffices for a great deal of work.The occurrences of the last week were spoken of, the book of T. taken into consideration, and Rh agreed at last with the brethren, not to answer it, but to ask their friends in the Newspapers, to state their doubts etc by letters. Rh. praid earnestly for friends and foes, and spread the book before the Lord that He may counteract the mischief which it is calculated to produce. - Saturday I finished the short account of Mr T's book: which I had contracted into 4 pages to put all his charges into their proper order. Then I gave it to Rh. L saw him in the evening very much depressed: the bitterness and crookedness of the attack affected him deeply: indeed he seemed never before to have made up his mind for such malicious and overwhelming accusations. None of his steps was left unjudged: no part of the work unblamed: all with him was miserable, worldly, not worthy of the Support of the Church. In all quietness he called it "devilish". And as he is humbled under it and confesses that he cannot hope to subsist any longer in his position, if the Lord does not uphold him, I also say - he is in the right, Only the devil can bring a Christian so far - that for systems' sake he mingles full and stated falsehoods with every kind of perversion together, mentioning nothing of the Good which at all events was mingled with it. I thank God that I am here. In the first two evenings I was already convinced of the truth of R's ways: when he went with me to my bungalow and looking up to the stars said that his conscience is clear before God in this matter and that: "if the Lord would not have given him a peculiar measure of grace I could not have stood here". Sch. even has not a doubt as to his staying: he is most ready to live on the poorest fare; but the conduct of P. has shown that the people can not be left in his and the Ch. M. S's hand. Therefore in what ever way they would get on, they are resolved not to withdraw. Since those days every new day has given me new information as to the details of the whole cause. R. is right, to call it a "persecution" - to mention also "the Devil" - but the ears of our age are easily wounded by such plain language however it may proceed from a prayerful consideration of the facts. Rh. says, people call it improper and offensive to speak of adultery and fornications: but they are not ashamed to commit these sins. O I thank the Lord that he humbles these brethren: he will surely lift them up in his time. Sunday (28 Aug) morng Rh. read Amos V cap. he repeated the 13 v. very thoughtfully. That the Lord may give him great patience, to keep silence till the evil time is past over. We donot depend even from the Church of God: Father and Mother may forsake us: but if the living God is ours, there is no reason for fear. - Monday we got the news: that P. has taken possession of the Church of a village which 2 months ago went over to the German Missionaries. People there had built it themselves. but P. had once lent 3 rupies to the Catechist, and P said, for this reason he now takes the Church. The Cat. says it is true, he owes 3 rup to P. but P. has to pay him something more for with holden salary: and at all events the Church has to do nothing what ever with the Catechist's money. - The Germans are despised, no Gentleman visits them: the Judges are all on P's side, yet P. looses many of the unjust causes which he brings into the Court. The Catechists of P. say now every where: you see how reduced the Miss. live already, soon they will have spent all their money. As to worldly allurements there is nothing to be feared on our side: every body knows here how poor the Mission is. In fact Heathens and Muhammedans contribute for it indirectly. Some of the latter take no house-rent. The catechists have in part less than P's catechists. But none has left Rh. though he dissuaded them often enough from staying with him. - P's congregations would join Rh. in a great part, if they were not kept down by force. - The Seminarists are most intelligent boys, with whom I could not be backward to get acquainted. They are much interested in Geogr. and Greek: and understand easily what is put before them in a natural way. There is much disregard of external things, much looking out for the things invisible. Sarkunnan, a most interesting face; clever Mathematician: learns Greek from me with the boys. - Mrs Sch's girls school. The fruits of the Gospel are here exhibited as well as among Catechists and men, little girls are here to be found who like to serve disinterestedly. That is as much as the sermon of a newconverted Catechist. 
Sept. An instance of the last mentioned fruits of the Mission I had at the monthly meeting of the Cat. and Schoolm. which began Saturday 3 Sept. In the evening already Church was pretty full: accounts of new movements pro and contra. Pett's people were less mentioned than families coming from the Heathen (in the whole 25). The Cat. wanted me also to relate something: Rh. translated them some anecdotes from European Miss.friends which I just remembered. Then he read some Missionary news of Cochin: and made a Tamil scholar sing the piece which the famous Tamil philosopher of Madras, Tambiran, had composed for his baptism. The whole assembly seemed to be much pleased with the many antitheses of porum, porum (___________ - old things - go!) and varum, varum (__________ - new things - come!). Sunday. 4 Sept. Rode in the morning to Gnanapuram, across the river, to hear Müller preaching. Understood scarcely a word. Sepoys attentive hearers. Mrs M. has a girls school there. Spent the day with M. hearing a great deal of Fjellstaedt and his wife: also of Haeberlin, (from whom soon afterwards a letter arrived, enclosing 130 rup. for the Mission, complaining of Bishop and Archdeacon, relating the change of his destination - as he now has become a professor of a native Seminary, confessing also that in consequence of a careful perusal of all the pamphlets of Mr Groves and by hearing what he has done the last year in Engl. he loves and esteems him very highly): of Charles Blumhardt (his connexion with brother and uncle:) Isenberg, Krapff etc. Monday 5 Sept. New meetings. Rh. deeply pained through new offers from Church congregations. - Sch. assembled the Schoolmasters: heard their reports: increase, decrease, total sum of the children, their relative progress according to 5 classes - all controlled by Inspecting Schoolmasters, the salary fixed every month anew according to the quantity of the work. Average 4 rup. 2 ann. Many are yet Heathens, some rob ashes; but they are not afraid of touching low cast people and in general appear very reasonable. Scriptures every where introduced as reading books: and committed to memory: examinations try especially the children's understanding of the pieces learned by heart. Every Schoolmaster who once tries to tell a lie is dismissed: so every idle man. The business of the forenoon was strictly confined to numbers: afterwards they are instructed, and led to spiritual things. With regard to robbing ashes Sch. is afraid to make hypocrites and therefore toucheth the point only now and then, and more ironically. I wonder at Sch's clearness and faithfulness in all these minute things. He knows more of the Congregations and Individuals then Rh. as he lived more among them and is even by natural temper more familiar with them. Rh. is the "peria a yer" (great divin). Tuesday 6 Sept. Rh. came to dinner, with a sigh: Oh the passions of men! - The devil seems to have made use of the evil conduct of those Headcatechists who joined Pettitt, and are now quite given up to a spirit of lies and persecution, to disgust Rh's Catechists at the very name of Headcatechists (visarana upadesi). Little instances have made it doubtful to some, whether one wants them at all. The office had a beginning as follows: When the Congregations that put themselves under Christ Instruction increased, Rh. and his brethren felt daily more that they were uncapable of bearing the whole burden of all these beginning Churches. There were occurrences of a double nature rising in them, secular and spiritual ones. Sometimes persecutions of headmen in villages, or of brahmins; robberies of Maravers; wants of a ground for chapel or schoolhouse, contentions between real or nominal christians about worldly affairs etc. In all these instances, if the Catechist was a new converted or a low cast man, the european teachers were ressorted to, and had then often to judge and to act in matters, which they had scarcely time and local knowledge enough to inform themselves minutely of. And sometimes there came at once men from East, West, N. and S. wanting Rh. to go with them on the spot: and yet there were only one or 2 brethren ready to start, some times perhaps none. At the same time the want of a more extensive spiritual control and examination became very sensible both in schools and congregations. The result of all this was that the Brethren chose 4 of the Catechists, men of experience both in temporal and spiritual things, to serve the Mission as Headcatechists. They were the hands of the Missionaries, stretched out into the more remote districts, where they had to travel, to examine the schools, to converse with the Catech. to exhort the Congregations, but at the same time also to hear of their temporal affairs, and to settle them in an amicable way with the different heathenish powers. Whilst it was very desirable that for the first part of their office no worldly distraction whatever might be regarded, yet the second part made it almost necessary to choose men, who were able to speak with high caste authorities: and as Rh. had among the Catech. men who united both faculties in a certain measure, there was no lowcaste man in the number of the first 4 Headcatechists. They are (David pillay) Appavoo pillay, Moottoswami Naiker, Savaramuttu und Vedamoottu. Probably these would have been sufficient, after the division of the Mission, if the brethren could have commanded means enough, to execute their plan of settling themselves separately in different parts of the country. But as their poverty obliges them to live together: some Headcat. more were wanted: and 2 months ago Rh. constituted some, without having had time enough for consulting the whole matter with the Cat. In the mean time many of the Catechists seem to have gathered little instances of native feelings wounded by the higher station of those HeadC. perhaps also some of a real self exaltation on part of the latter: and the conclusion which some pronounced very boldly and defended with hability at the present monthly meeting was - we want no more H. catechists, than the first 4. Many, without coming to the same conclusion, confessed nevertheless, that since Daniel Asirvadam etc have fallen so deeply, men in whom they formerly put all their confidence, no native Christian will trust more another if exalted to so high a situation. They rather would like new Europ. Miss. settling in the different districts. One of the recently chosen Headcat. seemed once to have abused his office, so as to decline sitting on the form of a low cast Christian, though he gives as his reason that there was no room left for him on the form. However the question was once moved, are low cast people not as fit as others, for the Headcatech's office? Much was to be said pro, and much contra. The matter was important, as Caste is far the mightiest bulwark which Satan opposes to the Gospel in this country. It has already become a proverb among the proud Maravers: "since this Vedashastram is come into our country the Lamb dares to stand before the wolf"! And men of the lowest casts had embraced and manifested sentiments as high above the Brahminical, as the heaven above the earth. Sch. told me an instance of a Soodra Christian who went down so far as to eat and converse publicly with a Man* of the Shoemaker's caste, which is yet infinitely lower than the Pariars (as the feed on corpses etc.). But these are rare instances as yet. On the other side it was doubtful, whether Catechists of higher casts would be likely to submit to be examined by low Caste Christians: and yet more, whether the worldly part of the business, could be transacted well by Shanars or Pallers, as they have there to do with Heathen dignities, and might be exposed to 1000 temptations in affairs to which they never had been accustomed in their whole life. - I thought, if there are difficulties arising in this matter, they might fairly be regarded as hints, to divide the office, to make low Cast Christians examiners of Soodras and Brahmins if the latter are as yet weaker in faith and love: and to make use of private Christians of higher rank for worldly affairs. Lechler had nearly the same view as some of the Catech. to take Heathen ... for the secular part of the office. But then one would risk that they would display all their heathenish arts for their own advantage and surely to the disgrace of the Mission. But there are also many reasons which speak for an union of both charges if men can be found able to perform them. - On the end the Brethren came to the resolution: to try whether the Cat. themselves might perhaps choose such men from their number in whom they have confidence as being both experienced Christians and men of business. Some of the Catech. remained silent, others were ashamed by the offer of Rh. many seemed indeed to regard it as the best step in this case. Sch. prayed earnestly that the Lord might direct the Catech. to choose not according to family, caste and other regards, but as in His presence and for His service. Then they began to write on papers or oleis; many wrote the names of those lately constituted HCatechists, or of some of them, showing thereby that they approved of Rh's choice: few wrote only the names of the first 4 Headcat. whereby they intended to declare that they want no new one. Nearly 20 names got voices: the 4-6 who had the most voices, were very well chosen as Rh. and the brethren acknowledge. It seems a providential event, that one of the latter, Michael, Shanar, is a lowcaste man; when Sch. spoke with him whether he has courage enough to take the office he said, he has already transacted similar things and found heathens of rank very reasonable if only one is ready enough to humble himself before them, instead of aspiring some gravity etc. So they will try it with those 4 and seek to profit from the whole business. At all events it was something against the Devil, that all these matters were so freely spoken through. The Headcat whose old man is often stirred up to pride, found a fine admonition, to look diligently on their path and not to assume things that do not belong to them. And also a certain democratic feeling rising in the minds of some, was checked through the brethren's persisting in having H.-Catechists, but proposing freely to the Catechists that they might choose them from their own midst. The open ... in which all the Missionaries viewed the matter before the catechists in all its bearing seems to be extremely instructive for their education: especially will a speach of Rh. stick in their minds for some time. He divided the whole question in many particulars: for inst. a HeadCat. comes in a village and wants the Cat. to bring water to his horse: the one may sin in requesting, the other in refusing it - Rh. shows a mind able to enlighten, educate, govern whole masses, to communicate them Europ. knowledge and a certain promptitude of acting out the principles which he has planted in them: this I think none of the others could perform with so much tact and clearness. But the others may go deeper in the knowledge and prayerful consideration of all the details of the Mission, deeper perhaps also in the knowledge of the silent inward life of God in them. Their Master seems to have united them for the one work, that they may unitedly preserve and augment, what each individually would perhaps weaken and diminish in one way or other!

The same evening Sch. was at Applegates. Mr A. manifested by his conduct that P. has in a great part ... with him. There is scarcely any hope of an agreement. Mrs Appleg. is dissenter and seems not at all to be happy. A. never informed himself of the real state of the natives or of the Mission though it would have costed him but little pain: he mingled an irony without salt and peace with all what he said. Sch. dear pacific Sch. came home with just indignation, convinced that all has been tried what could be tried. - Snake in our room. I saw her near my chair, after a preceding pressentiment that I should meet one that evening. We killed her with sticks. -

Caste. The remainders of this horrible bulwark of Satan are particularly to be found in the way of marriage. Some break through, but they have much to suffer in consequence of it. Sch. had once to stop a marriage procession with their little bells and musical instruments. On the one hand there is a danger in indulging even unimportant country customs: on the other there is a danger of imposing laws without having first cleared the consciences and planted the law of the N. T. into the hearts. What is to be done in marriages which were concluded by the parents whilst their children were yet infants? A catechist pleaded to day for such an instance as he thought it already a promising that the parents of his bride will give her up to him to be instructed in Christianity, yea will even learn it themselves. One of the Catechists who had married in the same way, as he could not be allowed to see his bride before the marriage taught her the Gnana Pothippu, conversing with her over a wall, on the other side of which she sat. - The Tanjore Christians that separated 4 years ago from their Missionaries for Caste sake submit to all the censures of Rhs letter. But they renew their request of placing themselves under his superintendence, manifesting a readiness to do all according to the word of God and not to indulge their former habits of Caste. They say that they now already go on in this way under their Senior Thomas. What they are afraid of is that the Bishop might take them under his authority and bind them to the same rules under which they see others groaning. The work ist too much for our 4 Missionaries: but one cannot but say that their last letter is really humble and that their willingness to give a ground and to build a house for a Missionary shows a real want of an European teacher. -

8 Sept. Mr. Carstairs arrives from Travancore. In the evening the Lords supper with 36 catech. A joyful evening. Rh. greatly comforted in his mind. The Catechists all seemed deeply affected. I understand that some were obliged to leave sooner for returning to their work, and an other number was afraid, as they often are, if previously engaged in worldly business or walking a little out of the straight way of faith and love. Probably the election of the last evening had stirred up the passions of a considerable number. However the deposed HCatechists were all present which was regarded by the brethren as a very good sign of their state of mind. For in these things, I understand, the native converts are rather superstitious than hypocrites. At all events there was joy in heaven about those that were present. Also 3 women partook of the blessed bread and wine. The order was first Rh. then we 3 or 4 men sitting near him, then the Catechists, afterwards the women, the Ladies, till the circle closed in Rh. I observed that when all the service was over he ate a little of the remaining bread and offerred the rest of it in a slight way to the nearest Catechists. Rh. has a particular gift of doing all things naturally, so as not to cause any strange ideas of holy things, holy places, holy books or meats. - 
NB. Monday morning (5.) Rh. pressed it once more with particular force on the Cat. to say if they have yet any thing which may be or be thought Ch M S's property. All what T. had written in his book was examined, and the Cat's summoned, to write on paper 1.) what they have yet to give up, 2.) what they have to ask. As it is the general custom of the country, to keep back property of him who does not pay what he owes: some cases came out, the Catechists confessing it quite unreservedly, where they had made themselves in part paid by retaining books etc. There is every prospect, that if the other party will communicate the details of their claims every stick will be given back. Friday eveng (8 Sept.) Rh. Sch. and I received letters from Madras which caused new deliberations. Rh. and Sch. are wounded and grieved on all sides and do not know how to satisfy their friends, if God does not satisfy them.

At the time, when the glory of the Ch M S was preached in all the villages, people came to Rh asking: but how shall we call ourselves? Oh, cried one of them, Kartterudeya sabey! The Church of the Lord! And they well understood that they want no peculiar distinction.

I have a peculiar delight in teaching the English Class of the Seminarists Greek and Geography. The latter I teach mingled with history, and drawing with chunam on the board if any object occurs the expression for which is not understood by them. Sometimes they make very ingenious questions, f. i. how are putti and gnanam distributed under the various nations of Europe? Have the Engl. much gnanam? When I told them of the German Gnanam and Gnani's, and of our University life, they wondered to hear suchlike things from the European Christians. What they look at with peculiar interest is the various forms which idolatry assumes in the quarters of the world. They still like to hear modoos*: but are not less attentive, if I seek to interest them for the Missionary history and Geography.
