To A N Groves, Esqr at Mr Cubitts, Madras, Vepery.

 Sindupontoorei, 22 Oct. 1836.
My beloved brother,

We have received Lechler's last wherein he informs us of the final resolutions of the Committee: and as Mr Rhenius is still in the country, from whence we expect him back in one or 2 days, we sent the letter to him. I think it will be as little surprizing to him, as it was to us, to see that Mr Tucker's influence is still prevailing in the Committee. I can assure you that all my observations lead me to the persuasion that Rh. sincerely desires peace, and that therefore in one view of the matter he will be truly grieved at this new proof of the Society's indifference to the evils which are working in the Mission here. But on the other side he cannot but prefer an open difference clearly understood by both parties to an agreement about the one or the other point whose basis is any thing else than the simple principle of Christian fellowship. In the last conversation with Mr. Blackman he <(i. e. ... Rhenius*)>*1 had given him fully to understand how much he would like to go on together as brethren engaged in the service of the same Lord and depending for its blessing on the same source and Mr Bl. also seemed <quite>* to be sensible <of the importance of such a ... cooperation>* and partaking of the same feeling. What Rh. wanted was that if possible such an approximation on both sides should be wrought by the Lord as would make it a real want to the one as well as to the other that no step involving the 2 parties should be taken without a hearty concurrence of both, proceeding from the natural feeling that the welfare of one member of Christs body or of one congregation is undoubtedly also that of the other. Mr Bl. came so far as to propose whether it might not be practicable that whilst Mr Pett. and Mr. Rh. for yet are still kept aloof from each other, yet 2 of the German Missionaries might consult with himself and Mr Dent about any conflict of the divided parts of the Mission; but he hinted also that as yet he is not invested with the power of carrying this proposal into action. We all thought this would be the shortest way for discouraging any native's desire for strife and unneccessary discussion*. Asirvadam also, seeing Bl. and D. going repeatedly across the river, <...>* expressed himself already in this way: now Mr Bl and Mr D are friends with the Germans, Mr P. soon will follow, Daniel (his intimate assistant in the last year's proceedings) is fallen - shall I then only remain ennemy? - But now things have assumed a different aspect: it is the Lords doing and Rheniu's repeated prayer: how long o Lord! how long! is not yet answered, though - the Lord knows it - it was sincere enough to justify our belief that it was heard. Müller communicated to Bl. the news from Madras in a full copy: Bl's answer was very cool, but open: "his keeping up terms of intimacy with the brethren would only strengthen Rh's hands and weaken those of his brethren" and that he always regarded as the chief evil in the Mission Rh's receiving every wicked man. (the latter point of course without any farther explanation of past things or proposals as to the path to be pursued in future). Mr Dent who had been ordered to go next week to Satancullam without any other authority than that of preaching the word, - had promised Sch's to spend a day with them before his departure. But the first note informed Mrs Sch. that they can not come on Friday (yesterday) because they are invited to Mr Pettitt's: and (probably after having heard of Mr Dents design to spend the next day with Sch's) Mr P. ordered him to have already the same evening for Satancullam, so that today only Mrs. Dent with her children could come to take farewell. These 2 instances show that the Committee have taken measures to prevent any further connexion between the Missionaries of the 2 Stations: because this is the only way to keep things in the same darkness and uncertainty as they were before. The brethren therefore have now made up their mind anew as they cannot satisfy men to keep at any price their consciences clear before God; they cannot say: we will receive, we will not receive: but they will use all their former knowledge of the characters of individuals and larger bodies, and all their respective knowledge of the will and the ways of God to keep off those whom God may wish them not to receive, and to accept only those whom they know from former acquaintance or from true repentance and from different and repeated trials to seek only the word of God and the love of Christ with them. Even if Mr Rh. should not have written to you already or if he should be prevented from writing soon, I take it on myself to beseech you by all means to accelerate a personal interview with him. After all what has passed - outwardly and inwardly - he wants to see you and to speak with you. It expresses almost tears from him to receive so many supplies and kindnesses from you and still to have reason to think that your inmost heart is not easy about the matter. Though he would perhaps never tell you so I know he nearly doubts whether he can receive all this with a joy- and thank-ful conscience. It is his way to write letters in the few hours before midnight - they cannot but be short, seemingly full of axioms and postulates and imperatives. They appear and must perhaps appear warlike: but during the great work of the day you would see that he has peace - and who can have peace if he does not wish it also to others? I assure you that nothing whatever is done to draw people over - that he inquires repeatedly with the concurrence of all to whom he can confide in the Lord - into all the motives of the Candidates, that he dissuades them, that he makes it a condition <a>* sine qua non that they must first make up their mind for suffering wrong. But what shall what can he do, if people come with the simple desire of being instructed by him, having no prospect of any temporal help from him, being harrassed over and over by the other party to stay with them, from whom they have no confidence and sometimes can have no confidence to learn? Some go rather back to Roman catholicism. Are they perhaps therefore not to be received? Of course not into churchcommunion, but only the more under instruction. For with all their ignorance it is to be found out that they have no trick on the bottom. If Rh. receives, he receives with fear: there is no place for glorying left, and if there were the subsequent trials which are hard and real trials would cut it off. for then the outery* is in T. and in Madr. Rh has again received a Congregation: friends are doubting anew: also the funds may seem for a month to stop. You see, how all this cannot but drive him, an old servant, and the younger servants with him, to seek their justification more and more only from the Lord and to depend with the whole Mission, Catechists and Congregations upon him: and how could this be affected if they were not anxious to pursue only that way which may be pleasing to him. And for this the Lord gives them great joy and comfort in all their weakness. - Moreover Rh. would never have written even to friends about all these lawsuits and other proceedings of Mr Pettitt and his native assistants, had they not been led by the publications of Mr P. and T. to inquire about all these things and some times about such minute points as made a more detailed statement necessary. If their hearts are satisfied about the general question and about the 4 brethren's characters leading them to act justly also in little things, he will be most glad to write only what may be to them a matter of joy or of directly useful consideration, and to spare more time for the single work of the Lord. Let me also remark that I think Rhenius not cunning enough to meet for instance Mr Tucker in writing: he despises to make use of particulars which if stated in their proper place or hinted at in a certain connexion may appear as a simple impartial statement of facts divested of every private critic or interest, and draw on the writer the character of a deep and quiet inquirer of facts. Rhenius always looks at the main questions, and according to his character he always mingles his own judgment with the facts which he represents; which however true it may be, makes always on people's mind and also on mine a certain impression as if he would enforce upon them his own judgment about the facts. Sch. for instance would appear in writing the same facts much more humble, much more destitute of private judgment, whilst I know (and he himself confesses it) he might be very wisely calculating the effect every word may produce on the reader. - With regard to Mr Thomas, I would remind you that from a very distant period he is on an unfriendly footing with Rhenius. Already in the beginning of the Bible Revision Mr. Th. once gave his decided opinion that he thinks none of the Rev's in India able to translate from Hebrew and Greek, to which Mr. Rh. gave an answer according to his view and knowledge which at all events did strange Mr Th's mind to him. 2 years ago when Sch. was in Madras, he ...here met a report as if Mr Rh. was travelling with bags of money through the Tinn. district to buy Christians: the source of it was found to be Mr Th. who did not deny it, but maintained it against Mr Rh. (who had written him a very strong request to leave from* doing so) - without telling his source or referring to instances. In consequence of this Mr Th. began to set up that other system of carrying on Mission viz. that a Missionary ought not to have a Cash for his own disposal, for the poor's etc. which they really tried to carry into execution after Rh. had left the Mission till to the time that they feared to loose people by this way. Mr Rh. has many reasons to regard Mr Th. as one <of those>* who was <were>* of the most anxious to deny or to put down what the Lord had really wrought in Tinnevelly, without taking any pain<s>* on himself to investigate matters on the spot. This I write to you without knowing whether Rh. would like me to tell farther what he once (but Sch's too) had told me: I wish you therefore to keep it for yourselves, as I only wish thereby to give you a key to one or the other sentiment which you may have heard from this quarter. - (Muller's and Schaffter's settling in the country will I think be a proper answer to the Comm's resolutions, if the Lord will have it so. It will make an end to many uncertainties, and allow the brethren to investigate more regularly and deeply into the state of the different congregations and to promote peace and spiritual growth: at the same time it will engender new ties of affection between those with whom they settle and bring many old things into forgetfulness. The brethren long for it and are trusting in the Lord's mercy even for increasing wants of support. They wish Lechl. not to stay too long in Madras as so many hands more might here be filled with labour and as a momentaneous ministry in a place before quite unknown to Br L. appears to them not very promising for the Lord's cause. - 
With reference to Mr Rh's sons I had a long conversation with their br. Müller, who of late had much exercised his mind about the subject. If they were converted boys the question might soon be settled: what they then would want for their usefulness in the kingdom of Christ they might attain also in India. But as this is a matter not to be pressed by men, the question is what are their future prospects regarding them as they are now. What trade or occupation can they learn in India? and if they even might find one or the other situation the prejudice prevailing in this country will always keep them down as being countryborn, whilst in Europe they would be stirred up by the many different ways of labour and activity to choose one that is best adapted to their respective talents and powers, they would be forced by all what is working around them to awake from their laziness and to work for their bread. And if one or the other should return, they return as men of European education and many doors shut to them hitherto will be opened to them. Though Mrs Rh. does not like the thought of having them in Europe, their father and brother think, it is better that they all take now some anxiety on themselves, than to hear afterwards reproaches perhaps from the same boys - why they were not allowed to use the advantages that were presented to them by Dr L's offer. Mr Rh. recommends the question to the Lord in very anxious prayers, and has no other wish in it but to agree with whatever the Lord might show him to be his will. - Up to this time I do not know what Mrs J. Gr's and Frank's illnesses are. It is a time of much trouble to you: may the Lord always make your strength equal to your days. In Tamil I go on pretty well: Sarcunnen preached the other day a Sermon which edified me much and proved to me anew how thankful we have to be to the Lord for what he has wrought already in this country. With S. I stand on a brotherly footing: he makes surprizing progress in Greek and is already reading the NT with me. Also Arulappen* whom you know has a great zeal for learning it. - Mr Irion who was here some days ago manifested a truly brotherly feeling towards us all. But he is in great straits between the 2 parties: and his Committee have tied his hands even in his immediate work among the natives. Mr Hubbard is as it were his and Mr Rosen's superintendent, according to the Society's resolutions. - Sch's and M's newly received letters from Germany contain many nice news: but show also, that Mr. Blumhardt thinks it still his duty to prejudice the German brethren against the 4 Tinn. Miss. and in favour of the CMS connexion. I have not yet got any thing from Germany. Probably letters will go via Calcutta. - Give my true love to all your Church, especially to those that are afflicted: to Mr van Someren, and those in Masul. and Patna. Weitbr. expects us still to come up to Bengal: what does Mr Parnell write about it? The Lord will direct all, if only we all like to be directed. Yours in Him _ HG.

Mr Müller sends you his love, and Mrs M. would like very much to see you once more here. - The letter to W. you need not to send off immediately but when an opportunity is offerred.

