A N Groves Esq

 Sinduponturei 13 Nov. 36 (Nathanail's birthday.)

My beloved Brother,

I thank you for the witness of your love and care towards us here in Tinnevelly, which you found or took time to send to us in the midst of all your occupations. Rhenius' and the brethren's (that is Müller's - for Sch. is in the country) minds were very much cherished by seeing, that not only your care for the Lords work here, but also your hearts' affection has been kept unshaken in all the real or possible misunderstandings that cannot but spring up in so trying a time*. I heartily unite with you in the desire to avoid all looking over our neighbours' hedges and simply to fix the eye on the footsteps in which Christ has walked before us. For I feel how much I and the whole Mission here have yet to learn from the silence, patience and humility of our crucified Lord. It is granted by us all that all Missionary work is Infirmary work: and yet foolish man's glory will always detract from the truth and reality of our misery, forgetting that if the misery was not so great, we also would not want so great a Saviour. On the other hand I am glad that I can assure you from the inviction of my heart, that real humility - the measure thereof is known only to God - has been showed both by Missionaries and native Christians amidst all their trials. Pettitt in his report of July last has to mention a great increase of learning Christians: if the registers were accurate it would be a matter of joy also to Mr. Rh. he also sees clearly that the suppressed Church has her strength not in numbers but in the Spirit, and that this Spirit might work daily freer and fuller in his most anxious prayer. We see also at present some thing of his working in the increasing assurance which the people when suffering have both for themselves and before the Missionaries, that the only right and happy way for them is to suffer silently. That "wicked" David especially has repeatedly exhibited this mind in most undoubted proofs. The other day a Catechist could not conscienciously take his monthly salary, because he had had an opportunity to get by some other occupation what he wanted for the support of his family. That also is a matter for gratitude that this is the first month in which there are no cases before the Court: Mr Pettitt has of late shown more discretion and backwardness in believing all what the Catechists say, because Daniel, the Head Catechist who had most cruelly abused his confidence for persecuting the Christians on Rh's side, had been convinced publicly of being since more than a year a drunkard, adulterer and even unfaithful in money business; P. was deeply affected by it: "when Mr. R. came here, he said, it was a sad thing: but not so sad as this, I would rather like to have lost 20 other Catechists than this one. Daniel, who is still as it appears unrepeating, has been treated with utmost kindness; they paid for his house in Satancullam what he asked for it, allowed him to live in it for the 2 following months, and seem to have given him a hint, that when Bishop C. comes he might recommend himself to his mercy. Also Mr. Bl's endeavours may have inclined Mr P. to go on with more caution. Lately many congregations sent letters by their Catechists to Mr P. saying that it is now already a year, that troubles began, and yet Mr P. has not yet made peace: if peace would not soon be restored they would join Mr Rh. etc. To this also Mr. P. replied, that Bish. C. in his stay here will probably settle things as far as possible. - Rh. is really sorrowful about the incertain State wherein P's congregations are, and wishes peace for their own sake that they may loose sight of every other object besides the strife for the eternal inheritance, kept for us in heaven: and so he prays also that Daniel and his compagnons might truly repent and save their souls. Rh. has much discretion in speaking with the Natives: whilst he can talk alongtime with Europeans about these troubles he always endeavours to keep the native's mind to the simple query: and what will God in you bring about by this? I know now that instead of exposing Mr P. before them he rather excuses him, so that they also do not venture to speak about CMS without urgent cause. - You have not mentioned any thing of the hurrican, though as it appears from the Newspapers you in Vepery must have felt its violence to an high degree. I conclude from your silence that you have not suffered a particular loss. - I come now to touch a point which for some time has caused me now and then a little trouble. It is with regard to my Europe correspondence. I know that my father and probably other friends too must have written to me by Mögling, who arrived in Engl. beginning of April. He had many letters and packets for India (for inst. for Schaffter, Müll. Lechl.) which he sent immediately off, as he found no ship ready to embark with himself. The brethren here have got their packets though by a long byway, as they were for more than a month on the road from Madras with Mr. Hubbard. Mine have probably made the way over Calcutta according to the adresses which you gave me whilst in England. I wrote once to Lechler to inquire from you, whether Mr. Pearce is yet in Calcutta and whether he does not mention any thing of letters or a bookcase (from Liverpool) received for me. But Lechl. did not answer it. If Mr Pearce has not yet left for Engl. please to ask him whether he has not yet got notice of any thing: and if he has, by what direction he sent it to Madras. Also the house Arbuthnot and Cpg. though they know you, may perhaps not have heard of my name. It is now 9 months that I have not received any thing from Europe; you excuse therefore my writing about it. The Lord knows best how to teach patience, I have seen it already more than once: but I trust every patience is only a preparation for a more surprising joy, and by and by I learn to keep my soul in silent waiting. The same I would say with regard to the still undecided question where the Lord will have me to stay: I endeavour to stretch out my hands, that he may guide me where he thinks it best. - In my last letter home I have mentioned Mr Starts intended going to Europe, and recommended again to the Wurtemberg friends a proposal formerly made by Rh. and Schmid to an other pious Institution in Germany, viz. that of sending out a set of pious young handicrafts men for settling in the Mission, taking the Christian boys in apprenticeship and preaching Christ by living works of the Spirit. Kaelberer had given me a short description of Mr St's plans: this made me to think, whether there is not abundant reason more for doing such a thing in a Mission already so extended and settled as the Tinnev. Mission is. When I mentioned it to Müller, and that very circumspectly as I did not know whether he would not think it to be an aircastle, he showed me the proposals he himself had formerly made to Blumhardt, who had been for a time very anxious to enter in them. Rh. was consulted: his mind had long ago been settled about the point: he also could describe best what kind of work is mostly desideratum in this part of India: and so I wrote in the name of the brethren a preliminary notice of the proposal to my father, to be considered with Barth Spleiss and Hoffmann (perhaps the most enterprizing and experienced brother in our little kingdom, who had for a long time thought about a Christian colony to be sent into the heart of Persia). Humanly speaking I am sure that Mr Start will find a freer access to the minds of German brethren if his proposals are connected to a certain extent, with a Mission carried on by Germans and having already some visible success in the hearts of the people, than if he comes merely with proposals for a new mission. But all this is recommended to the Lord who will bring about what is done for him and not for man's glory: may he prepare many hearts in England and Germany for a renewed activity in his blessed work! - You have never mentioned any thing of Europe letters: I should be especially interested in hearing of Mr. Young's proceedings. - A Ground in Ambinnagaram is bought for Müller's and the plan of their house finished. - That Lechler has found, you will have heard. I trust that the Lord who knows our weakness will have given him, even full and undeserved grace. - Mrs Sch. was much delighted by the Swiss Sisters lovely letter. And so was I. May the Lord make their work of love light and blessed to them. To these, to the Madepollam brethren and sisters, as well as to your whole party you must tell my true love in the Lord. May He give a peculiar measure of heavenly graces to those that are suffering and may he bless all sufferings for the growth of the hidden inward man who is of His own eternal planting. - If you have no time to answer might not Henry perhaps take the trouble of giving me some news? With fine thanks and wishes of Mr and Mrs M. etc.  Yours in the Lord H Gundert.

