Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

22 Kaety 2d May 51
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

I think this will be the last letter to which you send an answer to Kaity, at least after the 7th or 8th my letters ought all to be addressed to Kotirg. for Mglg leaves Ott. the 12th and I think it best to leave about the same time. The Kerala Utp on palmleaves must be lost, as to my mind it appears the very thing most easily found. I had it 2ce in my hand doubting if I ought to take it. It is not of long size. The Raja has it not. The only reason why I mind it is that it does not belong to me but to Fritz. So I shall still be glad to hear that it is found. It is Southern writing and they have not the same book in North Malabar. - What a long story about the Anjercdy list! It will be too late for the Report: for printers cannot wait so long, as friend Jacob. You ought to remind him a little to what length he has drawn out the promised fortnight. - I had heard 2 days before you wrote, from Mrs Irion that Duncan had left Heb. but I do not understand why. I certainly think it no loss for the work, tho' it is a hard thing for himself and his relations. I do not wonder that he has left some stench behind - for such souls cannot get quietly out of the way of life and out of the communion of the Saints. Now he has burst these chains I wonder what will become of him. What was the last occasion? How do Searle and Obrien look on the matter? - Fritz wrote to me how Vedamuttu Abraham etc had come to him to ask for a recommendation to the Collector for some office, they complained strongly of the women's rule at Tahe. Fr. seemed not to know of Ved's last doings, but hoped he would go back to Hebich. I wrote him something more about it. I am very glad of what you write concerning Mrs Fitzg. may the Lord establish her and bring the fair beginning to a glorious end! I wish the Begbie's would take an example. Better late and sure, than always half and half.

Yesterday we had Bishop Dealtry, his son (who is now his private Chaplain) and Major Minchin here. This one follows the Bishop everywhere or rather precedes and leads him as far as appearance goes whilst the Bishop battles stoutly against his Plymouthism. He was here about 2 hours, visited also the school, in which accidentally there were only 4 Badagerboys. He is indeed a nice man and no humbug about him. His preaching does good to several souls. Also Coll. Thomas acknowledged to have been anew stirred up by him. He only laid the foundation of the Kotirg. chapel but will not consecrate it that our Brethren may be enabled to preach in it. - Mögling is here again (Friday evening) to spend his vacation day here, for Buhler will do the Committee work for him tomorrow. - Pauline has sent me a fine letter of Weigle concerning his visit to Goa, he seems to have been duly honoured there as the Dr of the Regiment, of which Coffin is Colonel. At least he was supposed to be that by the Governor Genl and the odour of the Padre seems not to have been very strong, but he returned a good deal better in his health. Pauline seems more annoyed than he, with the continual acting (Theater-spielen) of the Albr's, and prays fervently to be perfected in the truth. Albr. wrote the other day a direct untruth to the Bible Soc[iet]y's Subcommittee - about a little matter - but what a full stop to every thing like brotherly intercourse! May the Lord open his eyes before it is too late. But how hard for a Missionary to begin afresh like a little child! Yet let it not seem hard to us we will set about it in earnest for our own selves again and again!

{My dear Mama I have to write you Selam Papa goes to the bush and brings me __________________________ that is something like Himbeeren (Miss Kegel will know it.) I am very glad to jump about, Christian plays plenty with me. Salam to Mama Mem Vau Mimmy David Aisa ____________________________ (Isab) Hebich Saheb _____________________________ Frederik Gdt} - I wonder when I shall again hear from you, the last time between 2 letters 5 days elapsed. But I am not sure if it is not the fault of the Post. Mglg declares that he is indeed much better (this 2d May his disease is a year old) on the 8th mine two - now farewell
 Yours HG.

I have written Heb's feast report (to me) for the Basle Committee. 
