Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<27>* Chiracal 23 May 51
 <Friday>*
Dear pa

I would have written yesterday; But Mr Hebich and F. Muller were the whole day here, so I could not find time and biside I had plenty to read with yours of the 17th and its contains. What a long letter of Jette, but what sad news of poor Louis. How your dear father will be greeved though he does not speak much about it! I have not had Ostertag's translated as yet I wait for Moegl. I am always afraid there may have some what occasion for Miss K. to report and talk. Muller asked whether you hear still often from Ost. Marie replied the letters do not come this way since Mr Gundert is absent. Hebich preached about the persecutions which had Paul to endure and how he counted them to be a small thing and of a short duration, in speaking of it at dinnar he said I have not yet been flogged, then I said Ho it will come to you by and by, then Marie said why could he <it>* be so? at which I replied (to approuve the preaching of H) that every faitheful minister or missionairy would get some what for his being faithful! then Marie began rather hard against it, this she did I believe more boldly because of Mr Muller's presence, but H gave her hard; there is usually a curious spirit in her when such people are here! I was glad to hear that you are at Kotirgherry, May the Lord blesse you there I have no doubt that you will feel at ease and at home! and that my dear Etty will like the climat, also Gotlob and all the people! I am very glad to hear he is a good boy. I send him a kiss for his nice letter to me! I hope dear Moeg will soon be here! Mrs Cummin is expected on saturday evening or Sundaym. she brings me a few things announced by Mr. Hoch to Hebich which have come by the brother weaver.

Coognian's wife was again delivred of a child <boy> who lived about half an hour, though he was more than 8 month he was not larger than the first of 6 month, well formed, like his father. poor people may they recieve instruction!

Cpt and Mrs Young paid us a visit. he has a bad cold on his chest, coughs a good deal, and looks very poorly.

We are expecting dayly the monsoon; the nights are very close. It is indeed very bad of the cooly to be so long in the way

Now I must conclud; for Nehemaia is waiting, and I have no news to give you, Muller gave us none, when I asked how are your people. Very dead was the answer. I have the feeling that they are very cool altogether, not Jany herself! but the brethren!

Many regards and love to your hosts, and to the Cockburns when you see them. The Children are well, and all as usual.
 Yours aff J. Gundert

These days I long and pray for a brocken heart and a contrite spirit, for a heart which trembles at God's word! Our women are altogether out of the way spacially Claudia and ________ May God give them knowledge of sin with true repentance We shall the Lord Supper next sunday

