<50>* Chiracal 9th Aug. <51>*
 <Samedy.>*
Dear papa,

Till today I have regularly written every three days; but yesterday Hebich being here I could not do it God has wonderfuly preserved him, he had set out of his house to ride here when a little beyound Dr Hichens, house his horse fell, he from the horse rolled a little father making culbut As he says, the fore legs of the horse are very much hurt he happily has but a little pain in his back. Mrs Cum is also here for some days, Mrs Yg will come D.V. to morrow to spend the day and take her back. Now I have first to answer yours of the 30th July Ester to my knowlege has not seen any one to speak about the truth of the scriptures. What we read in day times seems to work upon her, than now and then she thinks but is it all true? when I told it to Hebich he said it is nothing but bad lusts which provoque these doubts, I was rather astonished when he spoke so decidedly on fornication as being the cause of this, I said that I had no idia of such thing being the cause as many other people have had doubts at which I always lookd as a sign that there was light in one for which the devil would be angry and try his bes to kill. I send you here too _________. both children are always washed with cold water specially when in perspiration they are quickly put in the tub with all possible care. to day both had oil Vau for his tambac which is not quite right and David for his cough. Comme Mlle t'‚crit elle mˆme sur le sujet de Stanger tu vois a quoi les choses en sont, dans le fond je crois quelle a une inclination vers lui, prends garde aux avis que tu lui donnera, elle dit Ah je souhaiterais qu'il n'ait pas ecrit, je ne serais pas tourment‚e comme je suis, J'aurais r‚pondu non sur le champ; mais j'ai peur de ne pas faire la volont‚ de Dieu. Si quelqu'un pouvait me dire c'est la le chemin que vous devez prendre je le suivrai de quel cot‚ qu'il soit. Elle a sond‚ Hebich qui ne l'a point assist‚e il lui a montr‚ les fautes de St etc AprŠs tout je crois q'H. a peur que si celle ci s'en va une plus jeune viendra ce qui sera un feu continuelle avec le frere qui doit venir, toute fois pour mon compte je ne ferai rien, ni pour ni contre et je souhaite que tu en fasse de mˆme. "Mon comit‚ quel choque aurait il si je m'en allai ne serait ce pas montrer le chemin a celle qui viendra aprŠs moi." AprŠs tout c'est un tat* de raisons dont le fondement peut ˆtre ebranl‚ bien vite; Que la volont‚ de Dieu soit faite Je ne souhaite rien ni qu'elle ni qu'elle aille ni qu'elle reste. J'ai peu<r>* de souhaiter aucune chose et que ainsi ma volont‚ soit satisfaite. Si elle va je rendrai grƒces si elle reste je dirai j'espŠre avec parfaite soumissi<on>* ta volont‚ soit faite puissai je seulement mourir chaque jour a moi mˆme et devenir ferme pour ce qui regarde Dieu et son oeuvre. I am a little astonished you go so bad with Mrs Cock. The Haldwell was consider as a pious man but I do not think he knows any thing of a new heart at least at that time, he is a nice man, clever in his profession. remember me kindly to him.

Now thanks for yours of the 3d received this morning 8th We have been much rejoiced to hear what God is doing with you, this last step is the very contrary of what it use to be, having talked you feel uneasy formerly and now rather better. Well our God does not want any help when he has worked what he intents in side, it is a small matter to bring health What happy people we are to have to do with a father in God. I am amased at the quantity of mistakes I have made I thank you be not wearied though I now and then and even perhaps often repeate the same again I am thankful to you  Yours JG

Mrs Cummin send you her kind regards. Our Jacob the Catechist complain of weakness and pain in the chest. He sends you love.

