Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

29 Kot 8 Aug 51
 <Friday>*

My dear wife

I have no letter to answer and my time is short. This morning Beuttler came over and he will return this evening. The news from Mrs Irion are not good: she does not leave her couch and the Dr says she has ulceration in the womb. They will probably go to Coimbatur to see the kind and clever Dr there and to get his advice. They are badly off with the Dr they have now and then at Kaity. Here Marie's letter to be read by any one. No great secrets. I answered her immediately. Mrs Bühler expects for weeks - no news as yet. She was very glad of your fan to make a shade for the lamp of it. Beuttler is very nice. He lived sometime at Cottayam where all is very cool. Harley who had written for help, and whom B. ought to have joined accordingly at Trichoor told him at once, I was quite shocked when I heard of your appointment I did not think the Committee would send me a brother. Harley will not have him near, so he is to go to an outstation and build there. I am glad of this for his own sake for he would have no joy with such loveless curious people. He will thus be the Brother next to our own Mission, near Chowghaut, the birthplace of Joseph Nathanael etc. He is very open and relates strange stories f.i. of the Youngs in London, who are continually exerting a baneful influence on the Germans visiting them. Of Marie he told some little stories. Once when he dined at Ostertag's, Marie asked - but Mama how is it that there are only girls here - we ought also to have boys with us - which of course set them all alaughing. - On the 5th we dined at Cockburns, where I had a long talk with Briggs and could come near to him. He is indeed a nice brother tho' perhaps too much addicted to speculating on our holy faith. - Robinson is to leave tomorrow and will still pay us a visit this evening. - Metz left this morning but returned when he heard from his people that Beuttler had ridden over in such haste. He supposed it must be an extraordinary birth, probably twins - on account of the long delay, and so he came gallopping some hours after for the great news - and was surprized that nothing had as yet happened

I have given up the idea of visiting Salem tho Lechler has invited me, and Beuttler speaks very good of his mission - I feel it would be a risk and I will rather stay my time out on the hills lest I hinder my recovery by any steps of mine own. - Now may the Lord be with you and the dear children - give you the needful health and strength - keep Vau and David from all evil and make you happy in your work. Love to Hebich and all
 Yours HG.

