26 Kotergh. 30 Jul 51
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

This follows quickly upon the Nro 25, and therefore only a few lines. Now you have as many letters from Kot as you received from Kaity. The answer about the cloth is shortly this: if you can use it at Chir or Cann all right, if not keep it for Mrs B till she come, but do not send it. 
Your news about Capt Carr rejoiced me. I hope he will bless his Lord for sending him to Cann. You did not answer my question about Esther: how did she come to have doubts about the truth of God's word?

Nanny says there are no more _______ to my lamp have you any ready? and can you send me one or two? So my dear Vau keeps school already with Missy and the stick. I hope Missy is the quicker scholar of the two. - If David coughs much try also the sheet with him, but slowly. Have you continued to bathe him in cold water?

So Miss K is to have her room made without any delay. Stang. annoys me with his nonsense and I soon believe also like you qu'elle ne voudra pas. 
It is only just now I remember that I have received your other letter but yesterday and have to answer. That is very awful that Vau wets his shoes 3 times in 1 hour. He ought never to do it more than twice in 60 minutes, tell him that from me and that I want to hear always that Vau is ood oy. He ought not to wish dear David to get the Matchel - what he does not like himself he ought not to desire for his friends. I also am not for much flogging him, though not in the way of Mrs Cockb who once mentioned at table that she never flogged her children, but whenever they did anything wrong, she took them to the next room and prayed with them (This I fancy is all humbug, I was afraid to look at her children, lest seeing them smile I might be seduced to laugh outright). - You may easily fancy that I am not the cock in the basket as they say in German, with that dear Lady: what would she say to Hebich if he told her to go under the table! - Weigle is very glad that we did not allow her to take the service to her house: having had to suffer enough from her caprices.

I also was thankful to the Lord for having preserved the 2 boys from the fall off the Verandah and from the bone in the mouth. How many such mercies remain altogether hid from us. The more we ought to feel those that come under our observation. - It is true what Nanni wrote that I have passed a double silkthread through the skin to keep up a regular discharge. I even think of extending the system a little, but will wait. - Haldwell is to come here for a visit of a year. What do you think of them?

Now farewell peace with you all
 Yours HGdt.

to Mrs B. except - expect
__________yeard - yard
__________greatful - grateful
Mrs Gr.___dupuis - depuis
__________bonne nouvelles - bonnes
__________jettons - jetons
__________fidellemt - lement
__________meller - mˆler
__________humiller - lier
__________marrier - marier
__________elles rentre - rentrent
__________speach - speech
__________roop - rope
__________chouse - choose
__________messe house - messh.
__________meales - meals
__________whow - how (yours is however etymologically right) __________distingtly - ctly
__________caughs - coughs
__________wrinting - writing
__________wedow - widow
__________elects - elect (also in plural
__________rediculise - ridicule
__________sawllow - swallow

