14. <7 April 51>*
 <Monday>*
Ma chere femme.

Now first many thanks for yours of the 3d which today (7 Avr) came to hand, this was rather quick work. Fr. does no more ride his horse, it is already a fortnight absent in Oot and Cotirg for sale. Buhr meanwhile keeps it and shows half a mind to buy it. - I wondered for so long a time to hear nothing about the roofs. Now it has come at last! I wish you to get soon a good shower. People here even were very thankful when they lately got one! How must it be with you. - Mrs Begb. is evidently still the same. They have left a bad impression here about. You will take care not to give persons over to them, whom they desire but for their own benefit, without caring for their souls. - These are fine news about the children. I miss them now and then, chiefly David with his pleased quiet face. As for V<au>* I think the _____________________________ is quite a mistake and that __________________________________________________________________________ But I shall not do it in a hurry when I see him again first I should kiss him and listen a while to find if the great preacher preaches also to himself. But in this respect I am perhaps as backward in my line as he is in his - which horse throws him down sans compliment? - I here add a letter for him, which you must cut off and give into his hands.1

Mögl. generally brings figs (dry) or something else for the children. Fr does not mind these things, but carries them to Chr. and there they serve for their cooking. But he liked a plantain (sent from Calicut) - today he has had his longest nights rest and had an exceedingly good day. I heard him often quite shout for joy: he served as Christ's horse, who did however not sit on him, but only fell now and then over his feet, as he tried to run having Fr who kneeled between his legs. - I hear that Gr is to make up all his matters with Minchin, the details I heard nothing about. - I am going on quietly - without the buoyancy I felt at first. I feel less desire to move about, but am going on happily with translating (today 1 Cor. 13. here I may say that in the 7th v. it ought probably to be "covereth all things" that is "excuses all" instead of "beareth all": because there follows so soon after "endureth all" which cannot well be distinguished from beareth). I wondered today how great a thing this love "the greatest of the 3" is - and how little I have got of it. But it is not too late to look out for more and happily it is sold cheaply to those who really want it. Whenever you do not believe all, or hope all, then think it is want of love. For if we love well, we shall find bright prospects every where. So let it be! I am sure we shall have joy when we meet again and look also upon this separation as something past! Meanwhile let us praise and pray! Christian love to all
 Yours HG

