Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<45>* Chirakal 15th July 51
 <Tuesday>*
Dear papa

I have to thank you for yours of the 10th received this morng what a quantity of mistakes but I am glad to have them so all before me I trust your labours my be of some profit to me. The Antimacassars will be sent throug Mrs FitzG. When the Baublöckle come we shall be glad and will take care of them. David is still nursed by me, he is not exactly troublesome; but I thing it will not be easy to wean him even less than Waw I knew the great secret of M<ögl>* having written a draft to St<anger>* but I fear M. will be desapointed in the matter. St. has not as yet written to her but to Hebich, abusing the comite and the brethren of the upper stations, not a word of his plan. Hebich said of Elisa when she was asked from Telli by Varid "it is almost too good for me" by fear it would not happened I nearly say the same of the prospect before us.

If the thing come to pass and the Com. would ask to send an other one in her stead, I would say rather none than one like this present. 
You still feel oppression when you walk uphill; you should evoid to do it as much as possible; soon God will work for you you may feel as if you could not speak, when the time of the Lord is ready nothing will hinder I am reading grace abounding of Bunian he was often ill he had then grace to hold upon one promise and got well again so did Luther and many others and so it will be with you, to learn to wait upon the Lord is a great thing. Marie is also reading Bunian and to my astonishement the other day she said "I do not find that book as fine as I expected it is good for soldiers, who can have such thoughts but a soldier or such alike<?>*"!

This time you will have news of our boys Misy is trying to do her best in discribing them. I am glad she does so for I am rather ampty to day. On sunday we saw Mrs Fitz who has been pretty well lately she is preparing for the journey to the hills though perhaps they will not be able to leave before the middle of August. The Begbies have not yet left but are daily waiting for some fine days. Paul <Ittir>* has put himself under the treatment of a natif Dr so I leave every thing. No news from Telli. about the sickness. Here all well except Martha who has each, her knees swollen, and fells uneasy the cause is probably her periodes which have not come for 6 or 8 months.

Now farewel dear papa, peace and joy be with you to take momently continually from His fulness grace for grace is our life ells we have none at all 
Love from all and to all.
 Yours afftly J. Gundert

16th PS. I will try to send your fish oil by the Beg. as it may be rather late by the FitzG. I still continue daily to drink a cup of buttermilk it makes me cool and helps instead of lavements. Could you not get some without being too sour and drink it at 10 or 11 oC'

