Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

23. Koterg. 22 July 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Tomorrow is our marriageday <(23)>* - already 13 years. The Lord be praised that they are behind us - may He help us also over the remainder without loss of faith and love, and rather increase both until we mind nothing more than Him, and find all else in Him! Abounding grace is indeed the thing we have to study. Nothing else. Happy we are that the teacher manages to remind us of the lesson when we are tired or running wild in our thoughts! 
As for this new marriage it will just happen as God thinks fit, and that must be enough to us. He knows what is wanted. M.<ögl.>* will in no way be disappointed. He thinks it is worth a trial, no more. He did not know even if he ought to pray that it come to pass; but if God should think so, it might still prove a blessing to both. I can wait patiently till I hear or see the end of the matter.

I say the same thing as you, rather no help than one unsatisfactory in the chief matter. All other excellencies will not replace this one want. As soon as I know that I have to write in the matter I shall do it fully and openly to Sarasin, whose letter I intend leaving unanswered till I hear how things will turn. Then I shall in the name of God take up again the old story, repeat that I am still of the same opinion and tell him plainly what is the one thing to which look above all. The Lord will in that case also do for us something extra, seeing we have not indeed done something extraordinary, yet have we had some patience for his name's sake. 
Mrs B. sends you a letter. She wishes for some wool to mend stockings, that grey kind which you gave me some bits. It is now nearly at an end, and she has none. It seems the large soldier shoes do make holes into stockings where I do not expect such at all.

Mör. has just been with me an hour as he intends tomorrow to return to Kaity. He is not very well, but better than 2 days ago and made today a way of 4 hours on foot and 4 on horseback into the villages. That seems not to have hurt him, rather the contrary. He is very nice in spirit, and I hope the Lord will yet show him fruits of his labour. - He sends his Christian love.

He has now taken my time for writing, and I must cut the letter shorter than I intended. Lechler has written about Graul, who was there for a fortnight, and did nothing to make them have confidence in him.

Mögl wrote the other day that he had an evening conversation with Würth in which he came a step nearer to him.

Dont buy any more cloth of any kind if you have no early opportunity of sending. The roughest Monsoon time is now over and children put again lighter things. Plenty love to Vau also from Eddy, who can now say Maccarroni, and Rrotti for bread and Nilcoris, Liquorrice, Ricolisse and what not all for Liquorice, of which he is very fond. - We are all in pretty good health. Bührer has always from time to time some revolution in his bowels. They do not as yet appear to be restored to a healthy tone. Now farewell the Lord with you all
 Ever yours
 HGdt

Huber is said to be with 2 Catechists at Palghat for the purpose of preaching and distributing tracts. He is very sanguine that he will be appointed to that station. Fritz it seems not less so.

