Rv. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<No 46 am 19 Juli, dazwischen fehlen wohl 2-3 Briefe.>*
 47 30 Juli,

<47>* Chiracal 30th July 51
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa

I have to thank for yours of the 22d received 27th Give please my salams to dear Sophie for hers I have just sent to Mrs FitzG. the parcel she will take charge of A Ps. book two pairs of stoking with some wool to mend. some letterpaper, two pens, a small bottle of ink, these you have not asked; but you will perhaps be glad to have it. For Sophie 10 yeards of blue cloth worth 2 Rps and Mango pickle, Etty Sugar seed, some cakes for the three boys with much love. The FitzG. will leave sooner than then intended; for she has been worse some time when the crises are strong the blood is no more beating the Dr who came some hours after the fit could not feel the puls at all; they will probably leave this the first of August, but intend to stay a month at Coimbatoor if it agree with her, they have no wish to go to Kotirg; rather to Coonour In the parcel are the four tidies for the General Marie has written the price on each.

Hebich will have the Lord supper with the Gendry Wednesday at Youngs house for the sake of the Fitz.

My mentioning that Mg might be disapointed; is regarding his having mention this matter at home, at least he wrote to Heb. that he had at once written them to have some body ready instead of this present one.

Now do not be offended if I say what would be My mind in case she is to go It does not appear to me that it would be necessary to repeat the old story: "Mais seulement dire que si le Com. veut nous envoyer une aide: Elle doit ˆtre reellement convertie et venir avec un vrai desir de servir le Seigneur de la maniere quil le trouvera convenable d'apres les instructions qu'elle recevra ici par ceux qui ont de l'experience Il faut qu'elle soit assez humble pour croire qu'elle ne possede pas la sagesse … pouvoir juger de tout, d‚cider de tout, et ne pas d‚saprecier et mettre de fausse intention sur tout ce qui est fait sans son aprobation. Assez humble pour recevoir les differentes remarques qui pourront lui ˆtre faite sur l'education et traitement des enfans. Si elle a appri … connaitre son propre coeur … s'en d‚fier et a recevoir moment par moment grace pour grace de la pleinnitude qui est en Christ, elle ne trouvera pas sa tache trop difficile et aura de la joie d'aider et d'ˆtre aid‚e dans l'amour de J‚sus. 
Si la presente doit partir je souhaiterai laisser de c“te tout ce qui la concerne. Je suis justifi‚e devant Dieu … son sujet!

When ever you see Mork give him my love or best regards. I am glad to hear Eddy speaks german. he can learn English with Vau at his return. Dear Vau has been rather poorly these days Sunday night he awake with a very hoarse throat, and after he had fever; but now he is better I think, nomore so hot and cross. David is well, he caughs less. the sickness of Vau has obliged me to let him have the play things of Etty in purpose to keep him in side of the room. In the parcel is also a cravate for you and a cap for Nani! 
Now Adieu love to all and from all
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert

