Mrs Gundert, Chiracal

24 Ottac. 8 May 1851
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

It is today 2 years <9 Mai 49!>* that I walked to Tellicherry in that rain that early morning, when Chr M's baby was baptized - How gracious has the Lord been to me since that time - and how great is his long suffering with us! I am very well satisfied with His doings in this time and am sure he will yet magnify himself wonderfully in us. I hope you are also cheerful and praise the Lord though he tries us now and then a little for our best. - On the 6th evening I came for my last visit to Mögling yesterday I went to see J Groves for the first time and Winslow who is with him. JGr. is very grey, quite the same he was, nothing particular to say: when I asked him if he had plenty faith, all pockets full? he understood money and said no, that does not seem ever to be our lot! With Winslow talked about Bible translation etc. He seems to have got higher ideas of the Canarese version the Brethren are just now executing, than he had at Madras. There as Member of a Revision Committee he has in several particulars hindered the Brethren's work by scruples on little particulars. He told me that our Malayalam Revision Committee could not be formed on account of the dislike which Bailey and Thompson had against each other. - Then I went to Dulles' the Son in law of Winslow. Very fine young man, troubled about in the same manner as I was 2 years ago, he can speak, but feels it very hard to read a Chapter - the same I felt for a long time when as yet I could speak without much effort. He seemed a little downcast but we had I trust profitable intercourse. -

I met Buhler on the way who gave me your letters. Please do not send me any Kerala Utp. of the Rajas; it is of no use to me. But there is another work you may send by Banghy - a Sanscrit Tract, not very large, called Christu Mahatmya (_____________________________) Jacob will find it if Missy cannot, I had lent it to him, it is to be partly translated partly copied in Malayalam and the Tellich brethren wish me to do this work by interrupting now and then my translation of the Epistles. - I wrote to Hodges and saw him too on my evening walk, he will of course gladly do the needful, and I think it on the whole best to stay at Kaity till the things arrive, else there will be some disorder. But I wish they may come soon. - You always write of Vau's irruption. Into which country? irrupt is a breaking into - but I suppose you mean a breaking out which is eruption. I am glad he is so cheerful with it and wish him and David plenty joy with the fall of the rain, which I hope you also had these days. It is now fine again and the wind has passed: but much colder than before. I find in consequence that the cold water makes a better impression on me (that is I throw twice a day a Chatty over me) - The Poney is at last sold for 25 Rs to that Mr Prager who was at Tellich. in April 1839 when we first entered. - What is a "italienish gray hot" I never heard the name. - I have now nearly done. Barclay met me yesterday evening, and gave me some well meant coldwater counsel! Freddy I have not seen since my last, but will now return to him, he charged me with bringing the _____________________________________, which I collect for him from the bushes. Mglg gives Selam he will come somewhat later than at first intended. Farewell
 Yours HG
love to all!
