12 Koterg. 19 June 1851
 <Thursday>*

No objection agst sending a collar in the letter - only I think it might as well be in the next letter, lest it look like quickly begging some thing in return.

My dear wife

As you read no newspapers I will let you know that Forsyth is sent to Salem and H frŠre Esqr (I hope a Christian) is to replace him at Tellicherry. Major Cox of the 5th is invalided at Chicacole. Shubrick is Major in his stead - a Dr West is to succeed Jerdon at Tellicherry - 20th This morning the steam letters arrived with Herm's first French letter. Heb will send them all, for I dispatch them at once to you. Will you send them on to Mögling when Heb has read them. The letter is to be read by any one. You know a brother has been announced for us, but as yet not a hint about any increase of the girlschool establishmt. - Of course I shall write to Cousin Peregaux, and as I have at the same time to write for and to Heb. there is not time enough for a longer letter today. - Your news of the little girls has grieved me much. May our Lord bring out some good out of this discovery: not merely dread of punishment, but fear of sinning and hunger and thirst after righteousness. What a sad thing that even the least among them are initiated into these miseries. What we can do against all that, is really very little - beyond prayer and bearing them on the heart - yet I should think that a different plan must be thought of for Sunday: perhaps they might be divided and given in charge to one or two girls or women kept at home by turns, so that there may be some reliance placed in their superintending them. May God enable you to get some help towards it from amongst the girls themselves! - It is indeed a serious call on us not to be satisfied with a tolerable outside appearance - if the heart be not turned to the light, it is all smoke and varnish. May we also have more compassion on the poor estate of our fallen fellowcreatures all over the world. - Yesterday the Chaplain, a son of General Gibson visited us, and was rather nice - his affliction which has banished him for a time from active work seems blessed to him he looks on himself as a prisoner of hope. He suffers from fainting fits coming it is supposed out of the stomach and then again he speaks of an unbalancing of his whole system. Today I gave back the visit and saw his wife - had no talk, but the General was again kind and showed all his little plants and curiosities, as if he wanted to show me that he has a mind to favour me whilst I am here. "Every book etc is at my service." Of course I shall avail myself but slowly of these offers. - Did you hear that the natives in Calcutta Brahmans Rajas etc have convened a meeting, to consider what is to be done against the Missionaries. They found out that the return to the lost Caste must be made easier and thus decreed that the old penances are no more suited for the weak people of this age, and therefore money and a dinner given to Brahmans are substituted. They expect that many converts will in consequence return to Heathenism. Persons of good judgment think that conversions will be more frequent, because the dread of losing Caste thereby, will be proportionally decreasing. 
Now what of us? I am getting on very well chiefly with wet bandages round the thoat. Fred. is jumping, carrying palankins, preaching, singing and - a very good sign - after having slept his 10 hours uninterruptedly, if I am present at his opening the eyes, he is immediately ready for a kiss. Christian passed today 10 worms, and is in consequence more cheerful, than he was some days. The Buhrers send Selam. Ever Yours affly
 HGundert

Mrs Irion is not in the way you supposed.

