Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

15 Kaity 11 Apr 51
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Mglg brought me yesterday morning yours of the 6th. He had a day of vacation and therefore followed me soon. I generally leave his house before 6, gather on the way (chiefly when the road ascends) some berries and bring them with a piece of M's loafsugar to Freddy, running the footpath down from the saddle of the mountain to the Kaity house. He follows after breakfast, when the rubbing of Holloway's ointment etc is over. He began this treatmt a few days ago, and I have commenced the same, not without some hope of effecting more thereby than by the tartar ointmt. - Well M. had a letter from Josenh. in answer to that wherein he begs him to drop the private corrspdce. Jos. hardly mentions this, but is glad to break it off; the letters of the Mang labouring brethren (Bös. especlly) had deprived him of his sleep for some weeks, and he was at last obliged to lie to bed. He believes indeed, that M mixing himself in all sorts of business has quite neglected his school, proof of which is that he has given no report about his work with the young people, and he wishes Mglg rather to leave the Mission and come home, than thus to injure the Lord's work etc. Still it is all well meant and comes from the depth of the heart. - Hoch had written a private letter to Burkhardt, in which he speaks of Jos's "rücksichtslosem Benehmen" - perhaps he meant his taking no regards of Möglg or friends, perhaps he meant his letters have not been polished enough, however that be. B. showed the letter to other Committee members, and they begin to fear lest Jos. spoil every thing if he come out by his "rücksichtslosigkeit". He thought it likely, they would hardly let him come out to India, if no compagnon could be found. However in that case he would rather leave Basle for good. His mind is evidently harrassed by some distrust which the Comm. put in him on account 1.) of his private corrspdce 2.) of his energy - and so he needs some refreshmt, which I have no doubt the account of the GeneralCfce will have given him. They really need be comforted by us, for they fancy, we know but to quarrel among ourselves. M intends to send the letter to H. if he has helped to put the Inspector to bed, he must risk some sickening influence from his own doings. - M. himself seems not to feel it, he is very happy these days, and the brethren here like him now all equally. He does all he can to bring them all closer together and has God's blessing in it. Every body is now cheerful here, compared with what it was at first. - Today Mrs Ward came she said Mrs Lasc. will probably have found her husbd at Cal. to take her directly to Honore. I went and preached some time to her about the blessings of separation. Mrs B. took I don't know why some pleasure to contradict me and take Mrs W's part. Mrs I<rion>* helped me with a few nice words "herself and her husband feel it as a benefit - that they are more drawn to the Lord than before." However I have the impression that Mrs W. took it as it was meant and thought more about it, whilst the others criticized what they called my "opinion". She has been tried by the loss of children and felt it I believe much at the time, without having as yet given her whole heart to the Lord, as far as one can judge of these things. Her mother told me she had not that pleasure of the meeting with her which she expected - she found her rather cool. - I nearly think that the young Mrs Lasc (Miss Browning) is yet colder atleast her mother in law seemed thus to regard her. - I am glad you used your authority with Teman. May the Lord put all to rights! Have Jos's children gone to Tellicherry? I think that this is the right place for them. I have written to Halliday. - I did not see Groves any more today he will have left. As the meeting affected me too much I did not think it right to seek another. The connexion of young Minchin with that girl is now to be broken off, and Gr has once gone to breakfast with M. as mark of reconciliation I suppose 
Take care of this letter - I should not like any one besides Heb. to read that about Josenhans. Now farewell. May the Lord keep you in his peace amongst all the trouble around you! Such is the prayer of
 Your HG

