22 Kot. 19 July 51
 <Samedy>*
Ma chere

Je n'ai pas de lettres … repondre: Mais je veux ‚crire le 3me jour comme toujours, quoique j'eusse ‚crit … Hebich il y a seulement 1 ou deux jours. Je t'envoye la lettre de Halliday … qui j'ai repondu sur le champ, Mets la lettre dans mes tiroirs prŠs des autres lettres. C'est … dire aprŠs que H. l'aura lue. - West m'a ‚crit une de ses lettres patentes, le papier si gros que possible. Je lui envoye une petite note avec celleci - et parceque il a ajout‚ un appendix Telugu … son Anglais j'ai joint quelques lignes en Latin au mien. Peutˆtre il sera embarass‚ un peu, mais pas assez pour quitter ses fanfaronnades.

Le trouble avec le domestique est fini et l'on a repris l'ancien, comme j'ai avis‚ dŠs le commencement. Nanni a eu 2-3 jours pleins d'oeuvre mais il recevra un demi Florin ou quelque chose comme ‡a pour ses efforts extraordinaires. Fr. felt it was a time of exception and did not demand for him, indeed he seemed nearly to prefer Ruth for dressing him. (She is the sister of poor Varid's widow.) - Today Ir. sent your little parcel from Metupollyam straight to this. I thank for it, though I hardly have seen any contents. Mrs B. I think got some lace of which she was glad and there were collars of which the children made much. Gottlob had said for some time, whenever Feddy spoke of what he expected: and I shall also get one. So his expectation has been fulfilled. But what a heap of clothes Feddy gets altogether. I shall feel nearly tempted to distribute a little before we leave the hills: only I think the 2 little ones may want much, that he may have done with. From Kaity I hear that Mrs Gr<oves>* whom I addressed has at last paid the 25 Rs for the poney I sold. Though I had written twice to him I never got an answer, and I have found it seems a better way by asking her. - I hope soon to write to Chittoor whither my thoughts had me very rarely - after all that has passed during NG's visit to the hills. 
Mör. has been rather unwell these 2 days in consequence of overexertion. This is a season in which he has to take particular care. Indeed he came over on this very account, to avoid the heavier rains and winds of Kaity. But even here it was a little disagreeable. My room has not the best roof - after the rain has continued for some time it begins to drop from one leaky spot. However it dries soon again. I never felt any thing like cold in consequence. My health is very good, also the throat seems to become clearer, though I still do not speak loud.

I am glad of our quiet sojourn here, I should not like much to be in a house so full as Kaity is at present.

Mglg l'autre jour a ‚crit … Sanderson pour le conseiller, de quitter l'id‚e de retourner en Europe ____ chercher une bonne femme dans ce pays: jetant le nom des Rhenius comme s'il trouverait quelque chose de raisonnable avec eux. C'est peutˆtre pour le detourner des Gr<oves>* M. a aussi ‚crit qu'il souhaite une bonne femme pour Mör. avec lequel il avait eu beaucoup de paroles pour voir s'il voudra rester comme lui meme*. Je crois que Mör. a toujours quelque affection pour une qui n'est pas loin.
 … Dieu ton H.G.

