Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

3. Kaity, 9 March 51
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

I am not as yet in a writing mood, for my hands are sunburnt and the fingers stiff, but you will be anxious to hear, so I write without delay. My 2d was closed on the 7th rather abruptly, because Mör. said the last term for the homepost was on the very next morning early, so I closed the letter for Josenhans (with your inclosure for Hermann etc - also a fine letter from Mögling which you may tell H.) and Mör and Mögl rode quickly to Avalanche Bang from whence they dispatched the very same evening a servant to Ottei. With the same occasion I sent your letter. I followed slowly in the face of a strong Eastwind - which burnt my hands, though the body remained cool in spite of much walking. I made all the descents on foot you know the last descent is about 3 miles long. At 1/2 past four arrived at Aval and when Fred. came after me plenty of good milk was to be had (but also at Sispara Capt Ouchlerlony's wife left us some) so he was very happy. Next morning (8th) the 2 M's rode before to Ottei, I followed till the Tappalhouse slowly, and there lay a little in the shadow of Fred's bed about noon and gave him cheese and bread (the Asisi was very welcome) then went quicker thro' fair lawns (opposite to Mrs Groves house) to Kaity, arrived there rather warm from having walked down the last piece of descent, Metz came to meet me having descried me coming down. It was 2 1/2 hours, near dinner. I found that your question had troubled Mrs I.<rion>* a little - she mentioned it at once to the Buhlers, as if you wished us to be here, Fred to stay with her, and B's were annoyed not to be asked directly and gave her no answer. Hence she could give none to you. I then explained to B. that Mrs I. had only been asked previously as to what she would think better suited for us Cotirg. or Kaity etc. the explanation was well received and the room offered if I would be content with one. So I was of course and am now fairly settled in the guests' room. The Eastwind dissolved itself into rain (the first after 3 months - I wished you might have had it) not however before Fred. also arrived - boisterously welcomed by Mrs I's boys and glad to see them. I found that Nanni had dressed him anew on the road for the meeting. He was then very happy, and would even walk during the first drops of rain to see the garden etc. After nightfall Mö and Mö arrived too wet, but the letters they brought were very welcome. Already before hand I had got one from you: they brought Heb's. Plenty thanks for all news, for all love, for all care too, though unnecessary. It will have been a short distress for Vau. Happily children are so easily led away from a painful subject and a deep sleep makes an end even to strong commotions of their minds. I wish that you be also a child in this respect and learn to turn with some decision from a painful subject to that which supplies you with matter for thanksgiving. And I suppose you find on reflection every day, even in times of affliction that we have more reason for being thankful and glad, than for dropping our heads. Don't care about climates. It is quite nice here nearly 1000 feet lower than Ottac. and no wind - but if it should after a fair trial appear better to change, I shall go to Kotirg. Only nothing in a hurry. We are very well here: Nath has nothing to do but to look after Fred. both sleep in my room. Fr. is quite accustomed already and has appetite. I feel very easy, but continue of course to whisper instead of talking. - Today Sunday there was service, I not present, because I did not know the time. Sanderson was here and dined with us - a truly nice person. Mögl will have to take a cottage with him at Ootac. because Rice has done so and will have no meetings at Kaity. After dinner a kind of catechetical instruction by Mör. I was present, saw also Satyanaden, whose wife with Gnanam had paid me a visit already in the morning. S. seems sleepy, but I could not speak much with him, because we then went altogether on a walk round the compound. Mrs I. walks well and ought to be an example to you! - You will give Vau kisses from both of us. Fred is much pleased with the details which I tell him out of your letter give also our love to Miss K who will be glad to hear that Fr. has come to the end of his travels on the whole with so little trouble. I hope Mrs Irion tells you more details of Fred. whom she has taken under her protection. He is really modest in his demands. Only towards coming his heart grows tender. I told you that in Wandur he was really homesick but no more since that. Nath. behaves pretty well, that is to say: the first days are not as yet over and he finds it less easy to enter into new ways than to continue in the old custom. He has become very dear to Fred. I's children are most happy, Chr looks quite fresh and strong Fr eats also the crust of bread and tittippu (of ours from Chiracal) and the liver of fowls ("this good piece") - he feels never cold in his clothing - because he moves about more than down - Now love to you and all I hope soon to write to H.
 Yours HG.

1Il (le petit) n'a jamais demand‚ que pour toi! pas d'autre nom 
2Laufend Grüße von H. M.

