2 Kotergiri 19 May 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Here something from a letter of Sophie's Vater "Im Hui kam nun Gutzlaff auf seiner Durchreise von China nach Japan sich 3 1/4 Stunden in Stuttg aufhaltend mit einer Rede von Nachm. 4 1/4 bis 4 3/4 Uhr dazwischen. Rund wie ein Schneck ein paar Lippen wie korallrothe Bratwürste und Backen wie der aufgehende Vollmond und eine dieser Gestalt angemessene volle breite monotone pfaffenmaessige Aussprache, als Reichsgeneral oberquartiermeister des chines. Kaiserthums und Oberbefehlshaber aller Missionstruppen in Deutschld konnte er bald fertig seyn jeder deutschen Provinz in aller Eile eine chinesische zum Missionsposten anzuweisen, eilte dann von der Kanzel herunter und fort." Miss K will be interested in this sketch. - I seem to get your letters quicker here than at Kaity - of course the postoffice is very near as you know. Yours of the 15th arrived the 19th noon. Freddy gives no trouble to Mrs B. nor indeed to any one. He is now too cheerful to be cross, and not yet strong enough to be wild. But he jumps about very much like Marie when at Corcelles and is of course very intimate with Nanni whom he accompanies to the kitchen or any where. Your anxiety about his clothes is very unnecessary. Mrs I<rion>* did quite unnecessary things with her children, and when she put something extra on Freddy, he hastened to throw it off as soon as she turned her back to him. Mglg left me a fine pair of trowsers, but as I never like even to put on my own cloth-trowsers, I think of having them preserved up here till his return. - The gray hut I could not understand - now I see you speak of hats which is something quite different - I bought one for him, not perhaps Italienish, but at least grey or another nondescript colour, and much liked by him. I never saw the brethren in the possession of Italienish hats. - My Selam to Vau and congratulation to his flogging: Mrs B's Gottlob the other day did something wrong. When he saw his mama taking a stick, he immediately laid himself across a chair, though it was not yet meant for him. This I call a readiness for the rod, very deserving of our children's imitation. - It is right you tell me also something of David's progress. Dear fellow I shall not know him at all, when I return. As for Vau, the little Christian Buhrer reminds me often of his face, and even of his manner. He is not quite so tall as our little preacher, nor so solemn as he. - I am glad that Elisa is at last asked for and I think she will try and prove a better wife than many of those who have been preferred to her. - The book you sent has arrived before me - but the box is now nearly 3 weeks on the way. However they tell me from Tell that my Arrowroot Cooly did not leave before Saturday a fortnight ago and perhaps they all waited for each other. Still it is a long time and one ought perhaps to enquire at their houses, as they often send messages home through Coolies they meet with. - Here I have not yet seen any body. Mrs Cockb. I hear seemed some time ago to speak with diffidence of her Christianity - but at other times she seems very selfconfident with that stupid sort of Calvinism. She dissuaded Buhrer from attempting to read the prayers, to the Engl. congregation. But as Cockb. had a cough last Sunday and could not come I persuaded B. to undertake the reading, rather than let a Sunday fall out as the Cockb's suggested. - I also remind you of an old question: has Heb. paid Schlegel's accounts for me? Why did you not mention that the 94th is to leave for the Cape? Today a Newspaper - the first since I left Cannanore - gave me the news. Remember me kindly to the Fitzgeralds and other Brethren, if they have not yet left! Peace be with you  Yours HG

