Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry
 Chiracal 2d August 51
<48>* <Saturday>*

Dear papa

I have to thank for yours of the 25th received the 31 July Hebich brought it to me and read it; he did not speak much but I could see that he is on Grei side. In my last, I told you, that our boys had colds; they are now better, still Vau is very cross nothing can please him whatever we do! at night he is still restless, when he calls for me, I say Louise will help you, "No you come, Mama Vau want Louise no"

Captain Carr has sent us many lines and orenges with inquires how Vau was he did not come this thursday. Hebich said that he had it very hard on wednesday when they had the Lord supper with the Gendry the preaching was about leaving the world; when it was over Carr said well if it is so I cannot be cauntend as one of the nomber; but H. hopes it will but have done him good. After all the FitzG will ony leave on the 10th for they cannot have leave before that. So if I have put paper and ink against your wish tell a word I will take it back. The Begbies leave on monday they will let you know when they have arrived. Some new work is going on amongst the soldiers, some new ones are coming near.

As we have the coolies making Miss K. room I thought perhaps a window would be right in your room to give you light and wind; but I will not do it without your consent?

Israel and his mother are nearly blind from the small pox. From Anjercandy the news were that Maria is near her confinement; but very weak and some blood already had passed. I suspect it will be a hard case. Some of our girls are sick with fever that is to say from cold I think, nothing serious. Martha has now taken medecine from Dr White; but she is very much the same, she walks about but her knees are peining. Our ald Checoti is doing all his business very dilligently, no occasion to rebuke him; but he does not seem to have any liking for the word, he comes at Hebich's preaching that all for some weeks I have not seen Mrs Young and Cumn here because of the road which is very bad. He came riding one day and said that whenever he has newspaper interesting he will send them to you by banghy 
The mail has come; but again no letter from my sister! Now this is a rather empty letter

With love from all and to all
 Yours afftly J. Gundert

