Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

18 Kaity 19 Apr 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Now comes a letter which puts some trouble on your back but be not afraid you will do what you can and more is not expected. Fr. has his "hapetite"! again and is very merry. In Ottac. he was singing like a jolly fellow coming from the inn, because there was a good jelly sent by Mrs Groves. Nanni bought also grapes and 4 plantains for him on market day so he was quite happy, to distribute to the boys on his return (16th). Buhrer came the 17th and invited me on my communicatg your wishes to Kotirgh. So I have accepted. - Yesterday Goodfriday. Herm's birthday. I could not write. We had the Lord's supper, Mglg took the service. Nanni joined the first time. He was nice when I spoke to him and tries to gain Chattu and the woman of Mrs Ir. both are hearing the word not without pleasure. - And now what will you send. Nanni demands some old trowsers from his wife - you will also think of something for me some common (best darkcoloured) trowsers, one pair Europ. shoes and perhaps an other lighter wide pair. - For Fred. you will send something, shoes etc I do not know. - But I want moreover 1.) paper all of that large* sort in my drawer. You must fold each sheet separately twice. Then a book* of the white paper in the small room (bought by H.). All what remains of the paper like this on which I write and some letter paper. 2.) writings a.) a Kerala Utpatti on palmleaves lying on the lowest bookshelf - my printed copy of the Kerala Utp. (with many additions written inside) - let Jacob ask if he can get the ____________ for me - another book will be sent from Tellich. So far the native stuff. - b.) of my own writings chiefly 2 cahiers written at Stuttg in 1846 on bluish paper, all about Malabar history in the Portuguese time, the extracts are in German hardly legible for others, but Portuguese Italien etc is also mixed up with. The cahiers are not made at once but according to my manner paper has been stitched to them again and again, still it is all the same kind of paper. The time of which they treat is chiefly 1500-1600 etc I hope you, Missy and Miss Kegel, if you put your 3 heads together, will make out what I want. A 3d writing book, but which I require less, is one of Flora with a coloured outside, Flora's writing on one side, and on the other Arabic Portug. etc written by me. The thread has fallen out. Now this is a hard job for you, but only begin with joy and it will also succeed. - 3.) musick Layritz german Churchtunes (I often played them in teaching singing - Missy will find the book, it is not large) - then Judas Maccabaeus a large book written by me - Paulus by Mendelsohn, very new, not quite bound - a small written note book, written by me as a boy - and my Malayalam Hymnbook with notes. - This is all what I know. 4.) books the _____________ in Tamil, with plenty additions in my handwriting, it is a Tamil lexicon, but altogether Tamil - and, if it be not to heavy, my Malayalam Dictionary by Bailey. So now I have done, and you begin to do, n'est ce pas

After 2 days about, when you have the things together, you will dispatch the Cooly, but wait for an answer from Tell. whither I have sent a request along with this. - As I hope you keep this in hand, till you have finished your task I will also remind 1.) of the Anjercdy census - what a length of time it takes Jacob and Searle! 2.) of the bill for Bombay to pay Schlegel - Heb never mentions it, and so I could not yet write to thank for the things received. 3.) in 2 months more the newspaper from Stuttg will come, called der Schwaebische Mercur, this you see that it be sent to me direct. What a delightful thing for you to have now something to occupy your mind! I trust Paul and David will help you in your search. - The letter of Grosspapa will give you pleasure. So Samuel is a grave Sirach. Please have the letter returned to me when you have done - say through the Cooly, for there is no cause for haste. Perhaps you also send me Mrs Weigle's letter at last. - You may read the Enclosures to seek for any bits of news for now I am dry, not a drop more for you - except hearty love to you all, and may the Lord bless and keep you!
 Yours HG


Blieb 2 Tage liegen
