Rev H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<56>* Chiracal 28th Aug <51>*
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa

Thanks of yours of the 21. how can you ask whose wife was the Lady who had a sickness like Mrs Fitz Carr was never married! My sister's letter had no news as they are usually you know, After a long speach about you. she says she had the house made new, so much changed that I could not know it any more, she rents it to Dr Cheune and lives with Henriette. She asks whether our boys have even mentioned to have received some mony for their Christmas, she had send them 20 franc throug Mrs Ostertg she has not heard a word from your father about it so she asks if it is perhaps lost at Bƒle. Chable has left the school and has been replaced by another how is also a Christian man Fritz has also written a few lines nothing in it altogether. 
As Marie was writing to Mrs Buhler I have had a few lines to pay my debt. What poor people they are with that wonderful child. if they are so mad they will soon have some what to learn they should have heard Hebich's preaching last sunday about leaving, hating father mother etc. for Christ's sake It was indeed a fine piece. What shall do Etty at his return here are no invitation to go to dinnar with other people, no opportunity to put on fine cloth. You seem to see often the Cock may you have some guns for them and may they go down in the botom, and pull down all the selfrightiousness. I do not know as yet what face Heb makes to the beard' story I have not seen him.

Mrs Lascelles in her letter say to have received one from you with much pleasure, she speaks much of the work there amongst her people Amman will go after some time to baptise some personnes She asks also for tamil Bibles to be sent to Mangalore by opportunity. A Lady there <Mrs Chamier, Genl Kennetts grddghter>1 has the smallpox.

When Mrs Young was here the other day she related some of the contains of a letter from her sister Canties, how miserable to live in Angland, nearly starved almost everywere not anough food or not a propre food, the greatest parts of his relations are Arviniates or Pusites, she finds very to live with the small income they have they are still seeking for a parish wre their is a pious minister, in the same time it must be a cheap place and healthy the house must be near the Chapel as she cannot walk far, the whole letter is not much beyond complaints, but a servant they took a black man is preaching every were, and bought two bibles to give to poor women. Now Adieu Missy speaks of our boys
 Yours J. Gundert

