8 Koterg 8 June 1851
 <Pfingsten>*
My dear wife

I received yours of the 1st 2 days ago, when we were invited to Mrs Cockb. for dinner - this is the first time I went to dine out of the house. All was pretty nice. But when B. somewhat awkwardly began to relate the story from Mang. Mrs C. expressed a doubt if such characters did ever turn out well: and alluded to the unfortunate sister of Mrs West, who also after a bad life seemed converted and yet at last returned to her old ways. I said that I believed in conversion from any besetting sin as equally in the power of God and in His will to grant, and did not think a drunkard or liar a bit better or more easily converted or afterwards more likely to be steadfast. - A strange story told was that of Miss Fulton whom we expected soon to hear called Mrs Eades. I wished to send something down to the Coast by her and her sister Mrs Whistler. But the other day she came to Mrs Cockb and said: she did not like the Captain what an old jealous fellow he seems to be, does not like balls nor Polka, and wants her to give up all flirtation and that sort of thing, so she has changed her mind and sent his letters back to him, demanding her own in return etc. That seems then to be also a way of doing things in this world. - Metz left us yesterday after having been 8-10 days with us; he often made excursions, chiefly one into the Orange valley; where he has a headman whom he loves dearly and hopes everything good and nice of him. That man prays daily near the brook, no more worshipping it as before, the other day he thought his prayer not effective enough and has since tried to pray standing on one leg. He was rather astonished when Metz told him that was no improvement and promised no more to do so. - The Chinese fan is hardly to be sold - it does not look new, having rubbed against something in the box - but I will try. - The ginger did not spoil the clothes, though they did not digest it properly. The washerman will bring them tomorrow all clean. - I am glad to hear your news of the ________ woman, that is a comfort for you after Teman's 2 girls are thus taken away. Yet I also believe that she will at last bring them back to you. - Mrs Irion I hear has by the Dr been ordered to lie on the couch. He (her husbd) is afraid of her having some organic inward disease, but I think it is chiefly weakness. Also Mrs Buhler was unwell, probably the consequence of his frequent absence for the Committee work at Otty. This they are now bringing to an end rather rapidly. - Today Pentecoste Buhrer had a nice sermon, also some people more than usually (the Whistlers came too - when asked by Mrs B. if they are going to the Coast, she said, we are not yet decided, perhaps) - I read afterwards some written sermons of Sophie's Papa and one of Spleiss, which did refresh me greatly. I hope you have had a nice day and that the Lord is bringing some more souls to his knowledge. Mörike writes they had a blessed Ascensionday, which is also the day of Casamajor's exit out of this world (29th May - Mglg's birthday) - Nath. is nice and occupies himself well. I have given him 4 - Fred. is altogether happy, chiefly on such an occasion as a visit to Mrs Cockb. Today Miss Cockb. brought him one or 2 fine strawberries as also to the other children. He made much of it. At the same time he is becoming more selfwilled and imperious with Nanny - the consequence of better health. Love to Vau and David
 Ever Yours HG

