Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

42 Kotergh 13 Sept 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

I waited 4 days before writing, still no letter from you - your last I received the 8th - So I am rather empty having nothing to answer, and expecting at the same time the overland letters which must have come by steamer from Bombay. Please tell West, when occasion offers that I have received his letter about the house. He has now given it in charge to Capt Begbie. 
I think I have written that the Begbies have at last sent me their parcel. 
That Mrs Chamier - sick of smallpox at Honore, has died in the faith. Mrs L. gave a nice account of it to Mögling

Yesterday Moses, the Br. of the Calicut Mary has come to me. He had been with an officer, whom he accompanied to Manjery and then up here, but would not go farther with him to Bangalore. He got fever but is already better. He saw me last at Ottac. and thought then to try and return to us, if merely for the belly's sake who can know it? He looks miserable but perhaps has learnt that the wages of sin are not sweet. I took him for a trial. Mrs Weigle was pleased to receive a letter from you. - Hebich has been attacked in a Rom. Catholic monthly miscellany (at Madras) and abused most filthily - Also Searle and Obrien get their part and the author advises the Irish soldiers to beat these Philistines with asses' jawbones etc All in a most disgusting way - so writes Weigle. But they will not die from it, I hope. 
Irion has written hopefully from Coimbatur. He invited Buhrer, who will go down next week. The Dr <Porteous>* there is strongly against a longer stay of Bühr. on the hills, saying, he will certainly not get better as long as he stays up here. Therefore B. is more inclined to join me in leaving the hills sooner. They (the Ir's) have a small house for 30 Rs per month near the Bazar, but are pleased with it. The noise from the nearness of the Bazar is no pleasure to the parents, but most amusing to the boys, who prefer the place to Kaity - of course.

Mör. is here nearly 2 weeks, and will preach tomorrow. He is repeatedly invited to the Cockb's to dine there alone. Madame does not seem to like much my company, nor indeed all of us, except M. who has his tender reasons for being pleased with the house in spite of the repeated drawbacks. - It seems the C's expect now indeed that the Lasc. will come up here. - Haldwell is expected tonight. I am improving in health, Fred is very lively and happy, and repeatedly says __________________________________________________ - He comforts himself when told that there are no houses at Chiracal where to pay visits - with the assurance that Nanni will be there and he will then visit him. I hope you and the children are getting on well in health and wishing you all happy days, esp. on the 21st, if the baptism be fixed for that day

 I remain
 Ever yours
 H Gundert
Kot. 13th

