Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

7 Kotergherry 5 June 1851
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

That I do not forget I will mention at once, that an English letter from a Mr Tilbury ought to be sent to me. It is in the drawer immediately before my chair (when writing at the table) and is merely half an octavo leaf. It may also be in the upper drawers to the right or left, but no where else. I think you will find it in the middle drawer. - Now a good news from Mang. the conversion of a harlot, about 17 years old. This girl is daughter of an English Colonel who tried hard to get her from her mother, even so far as to carry his suit till Madras, but he lost it - he remained with her mother till she died, then with her mother's sister, who lives as the harlot of a (Muhammedan) Shristadar. She has European features and is very white (reminded me of that poor Simanti in Tell. in your school at Hanna's house). She met repeatedly some Christian women in the compound where she lived and heard of God's word. That made her at last troubles of conscience, and when the Gentleman who lived with her last (Swinton) left Mang. it seems that he being a little awakened by means of Dr Foulis, wished her to change her life. However that was at last she resolved to become a Christian. A month ago she told so to those Christian women her neighbours: Greiner heard it and was at last forced to believe the truth of it. But her aunt felt something going wrong, the Shrist. tried hard to make Muhammedans of both, the girl's decision alone prevented it. She was now watched day and night. Once a day was fixed for her escape Andrew Simeon etc were to walk near her compound to protect her also Greiner kept close to the military hospital for case of need. But he came not that night, she having been too well guarded. Monday the 19th at night she came trembling to the Missionhouse, covered with gold and silk. As she had no other way, she had persuaded all the women to go to the temple for a ceremony. She then put on her ornaments and some clothes and when the others had entered the temple she remained outside on the steps and watched the moment for running away. Our people were ready to accompany her, and had therefore a good deal of trouble that night, but Gr. sent word to the Shristadar that he would be made responsible for all. That gave them some rest. Next day the whole town was full of it: The women came with a number of Maplas ready to take her away. The women were permitted to talk with her, and offered all sorts of fine things, even so far as to permit her to become a Christian and be married, only let her now come along. But she answered most resolutely. They tried to pull her along, but Gr pushed her quickly into the room. The 21st all Maplas were again ready before the Church, but one had been careful to keep her in the house even during service. The 22d the Maplas came back, but were not permitted to enter, nor were the women who tried again to speak to her. Since then they have set spies around the Compound, complained that she had been forcibly abducted and demanded back the 700 Rs worth of jewels etc she had taken away (it may be 100 Rs worth). Fisher came the 24th to question her at the Missionhouse and was quite satisfied by her fearless answers, showing that the whole was her own free resolution. So he was satisfied and will dismiss the case. They may perhaps commence a lawsuit for the gold etc but the end of that may be that they must give back her part in the property.

They have since promised a flogging to the Christian family (David's) that helped most towards the escape. The 25th Sunday (your lord's supper) she was for the first time in Church, the people outside made some disturbance and called her, but have not ventured any thing more. She is happy and anxious to learn, Monika reads and prays daily with her and seems to be her favourite. Anderson was very rejoiced at this case and intends to write to Swinton. I think you will be as glad at my translating this out of a letter of Degg. arrived just now, as if I had written you a fine sermon of my best! As Hebich will also see this I may as well thank him here for his nice letter two days ago The Newspaper had rather frightened me a little by the story of the Paymaster's white ants, a Reverend Gentleman was said to have had his banknotes in that illfated chest, but as he writes nothing I suppose that my sympathy is misplaced and every thing saf. No one mentions the fire! I wish it was also idle Newspapertalk.

Today Freddy has begun to hold forth like Paul no one suggesting it to him. He mounted a chair and worked with tongue and arms most wonderfully "you must, you must etc." I afterwards wanted to hear him, but he would not continue as soon as he saw me come. When I asked him if Papa also must preach he laughed, I questioned him as to his remembering my having ever preached he said yes in ________________ Can he remember my preaching in Chapel two years ago (perhaps the Lord's supper).

Good news about the lace! In one day I sold for 14 Rup. Only a little bit is left. The money I have already in pocket. The Cockburns, and the General's Ladies took it all. I am invited to the first; she having promised to talk for two in order that my voice be spared I shall accept of the invitation in order once to see and hear them more at length.

Freddy demanded today cold water for his washing and laughed at his feeling a little cold. He is at times so boyish. It is quite a delight to see him playing with the ball, throwing it and running after it. But he especially delights in building houses and throwing them down. I shall therefore ask the Tell. brethren to have Blöckle made for him. Myself in very good progress towards health - sends you best love, kisses to the children and Selams to all
 Yours HGdt
