Mrs. Gundert, Chirakal1

 Kaity Mai 14. 1851.

My dear Sister

First I will see whether I can write to you in English and if I can not go on with it I will finish in German as your Husband told me, that I may do so. Many thanks for your kind note I received some time ago and which I wished to answer sooner, had I not always so many things to do, which can not suffer any delay. - I suppose you hear often from your dear Husband and will be very thankfull that your son seems to improve much. He looks much more cheerful, than he did, when he first came. I quite hope, the Lord will grant that he will leave the Hills very much strengthened. - You kindly ask, how we are? I am thankful to say, that my dear Husband is pretty well and can do his work, though his constant head-ache and pains in the stomack cause him much to suffer. But I am very thankful, that the Lord grants him, so much health. With regard to me, I may also say, that I am stronger than I was in the last year, though, just now, I get very nervous, when much doing. But I hope, I shall be stronger after some months.

I am very glad that dear Pauline <Irion>* is here and that she will stay till after my confinement, so I shall have a kind sister, who will help me. -

I was glad to hear that you have no more so very hot, as it was some time ago, for I thought much how trying it must be for you all, if you have much work in such a very hot time, you will have been glad that your Husband had escaped that time.

You must excuse my bad writing, perhaps another time it will be better. With regard to French, I think it would give me some trouble to read a letter in that language, whereas English I can quite understand. My dear Husband joins me in herzlichen Grüßen to you. Remember me before the Lord especially in the next time, for my heart is trembling some times. With love
Believe me
 Yours affect.
 Sophie Bühler.



 <17 Mai 51>*

1When Freddy left this morning Mrs I.<rion>* said to him "now you will have no Mama" answer "Bührer Mama untu Kotergiliil moreover "you will have no Christian to play with" answer ________________________________________ and so it was a tearless farewell - though quite hearty. Feddy supposes that from Kotirg one will soon move farther towards dear Chiracal. He behaves very well here. - Gottlob to rub his shoes after walking on the iron at the door, sat on the wet ground and when reproved said very seriously, that he must make them saf! Quite like his grandfather!

