Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<49>* Chiracal 5th August 51

Dear papa.

Today the 4the our dear Samuel's birthday. I fancy to see him very joyful with his presents and good dinnar of "lebervirst"

Saturday I received yours of the 28th for which, thank. We shall wait patiently to see the result of Miss <Kegel>* will, and will not. Yesterday I heard a good preaching on the text of the day; "Those who still say on my honnor, on my word, they do not know there is a God they are Gods themselves. Now what do you think the soldirs have offered to Hebich to make him a fine pulpit and I am afraid he will accept it. What vain people are those soldirs, they would do much better to give monney to build an house for the boys. I made sad face when Hebich showed the plan of the pulpit! The Sister have made a beautiful covering to put over the coffins of deads when carried to the burial grown with out the work it cost 22 Rps it is of black velvet with frills. The Begbies are still kept here by the rain: She is rather disliked by the christian people here for her talking so very much and at rendom. They had long discutions with Mr H. The daughter seems to be the best of them she regrets to leave this place. I wish she could marry; she would I think become as good as her Sister Francis. I was glad to read your explanation of John 20.8 and am still more glad that you have made some tracts. I hope they will be sent to us when printed: Would you perhaps by opportunity tell them at Telli. that we would be obliged for their sending us tracts or books whenever they have any new ones. I like to have them read by the girls with Joseph afternoon when we are all quiet at school. Today Miss and Elisabeth have read us the Madras fine news about the conversion and beptism of John and Anna. Do you know any thing about that John who was baptised at Mangalo when you were there? how is he going on Poor Huber how wise in his own eyes he is still. I am glad you are looking for a pony, you will be able then to pay some visits round you on the Hills. My love to dear Sophie. Jacob's special Salams. Our children are pretty well Vau still cross with his cold which is not quite gone  Yours J Gundert.

Miss Kegel wishes to know the meaning of the words enclosed she thought they were french but I dont know them they are in a letter sent to her by the Student Mayor you know she heard already before from him 
Tell Nani that our ________________________ cow gives five bottles of milk. 
