Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

17 Koterg. 4 July 51
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Today yours of the 28th arrived. It tells me nothing very distinct about Hebich: whose case appears to me more serious than perhaps to you, because you are near. How does he feel in preaching? Does his eruption appear again outside? I believe that great care will be required to free him from the evil without internal injury. If Paul suffers from dysentry, Hebich ought to think of sending him to some distance from the coast. Perhaps if he could accompany Irion it would be the best. I thought his complaint was on the chest. The Weigles' thought of going home perhaps when the whole translation work is finished. This is all what I can hear about it. (NB. hear - not here). - They seem to think at Kaety that Mrs Irion is more ill than the Dr likes to show. But I do not know particulars. The womb appears to be swollen and the Dr thinks it likely that there is something like an abscess forming. But do not speak of it: it is so difficult to catch the right term, and people are easily frightened by what they hear and report farther. When Buhl came over hither she charged him especially not to speak of the matter, that nothing may reach her husband. He, you can well understand, is very disquieted about it and asks her continually about the details she feels, searches then in books and finds awful possibilities stretching before him, out of which he takes new stuff for writing disquieting letters to her. It is better he see her and the Dr that he may know as much as can be known. - On the 2d Buhr buried the General in the Church. I accompanied the cortege, which was all very simple, hardly any hat or coat like the other's (so that you be comforted about my clothes!) - the Chaplain seemed much affected and glad that it is over. On the evening to Mrs Cockb who had invited us because of her daughter's birthday. Very little is to be got of her, I think him much more serious. The daughter is nice as far as I can see. I do not think Mrs Cockb. knows the one thing needful, but has a bad conscience from feeling that she ought to seek the thing and yet is half ashamed to confess to herself how very backward she is. She does not like anything pointed and escapes it in a familiar sort of style which I do not admire at all.

So the General has left his house with everything in it to his son in law, a Capt Briggs at Bangalore who is said to be a serious man. The other property is divided amongst the children, excepting one son, a Lieutenant, with whom he had a hard quarrel - and for the Church no provision is made. So the building is stopped very abruptly and it remains to be seen what the Captain will think of it, when he comes up here. Perhaps it is a profit that the General is buried in it, so the children can hardly avoid finishing the building at least so far as to complete the monument and secure it against the ravages of time. The Chapl. and all the other members of the family left already this morning and thus Koterg is again very empty. 
I ought to mention that Ammann was very well pleased with Mrs Lascelles doings at Honore, where he stayed for some time, baptized and prepared a couple for baptism. - Bührer has not been quite well this week, his Gottlof (so Fred calls him) is well again. Fred went also to the burial, he demanded it saying, the General took me on his lap, when he came last to service (22 June) and asked me my name Fred Gundt So he saw it all and seemed somewhat impressed with it. One day he came by himself to pray with me, in preference to the Tulu prayer where he generally attends with Nanny. He has finished the sugarseeds and comes now daily once or twice for your grapes and sugar, or for my liquorice which happily you sent with me These things are a great amusement to him.

This morning at last I sent off all your home letters. Mögl writes that Bosinger must probably leave the coast to avoid a real illness. He thinks it may be a hint for him to go home; because in temper and his mechanical attainments are both not of the right sorts and the one sours and spoils continually the other. Tell Heb. occasionally with my love that I found no time at last to write to Diez but charged Ostertag with a kind message to him from us both. Metz added his approval of Heb's letter below that of Irion: perhaps Albr. considers a little these additions. Mör. writes in a happy strain. They have this year prevented the Badagas from bringing their sacrifices to the little wood behind the Kaity house, at which they were very angry and left with empty threatenings. Now farewell
 Yours HG.

Br Hebich Miss Kegel and all. Love to Vau David
