Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

39 Kot 2 Sept 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Of course always the most important at first. I got 9 Rs for the Antimacassars, and the General ordered then 2 more of the same thread and make as the coarser kind, but 1/4 less broad, I think about the breadth of the smaller sort. So please have 2 more made for him.

My last I wrote at Kaity, before visiting Col Coffin who was very nice. From him I heard that poor John (Shamrao) has left the Bellary Missionaries and joined Strange, who has instilled his own notions into him. Coffin talked also much of the Weigle's, Carl being very clever and nice etc. I wished to see the Fitzg's but felt that so much was enough for the day, therefore returned and wrote a note to them. On the following day (Sunday 31st) there was the baptism of Wilhelmine Catharine Sophie <Bühler>*. Mrs Irion and Beuttler besides 3 brethren being witnesses. Fine dinner and plenty Cakes - the Irion's children being also present, it was a nice party. Bühler very happy. She troubled with a little sore breast otherwise all in order. Very careful of exposing the babe or self, which might be a pattern to older persons! (Hear!) I returned the 1st Sept, after Coffin had met us at breakfast. In Cunnur I saw the General there, Kennett, who helps much towards building a large Church. You know the barracks will be built near it. - Arrived about 4 o'clock here Freddy did not meet me, being asleep, after having been harrassed by toothache Mrs B. thinks in consequence of eating the fine Chiracal Springerle. Well he is now over it, having his cheek a little swollen. The visit at the plantation had been a great joy. - Begbie I hear grumbles plenty about Heb, worse English than he spoke 10 years ago, sermons without order etc. - No bride is coming for Würth. - Miss K. has written to me and I hope soon to answer her. Today I found rather much to do on account of the things accumulating in my absence.

I am glad of the news of Ruth Susanne Caroline. May the Lord help them to come to something whole!

Heb has written me some news about the Church and the Conference. Of course I hear that his ordering his people to preach every where in other Churches has given offence. He might have given this medecine in smaller doses. 
If you find my parents letter of January 1851 (in the drawer to the right hand of my table) you will find if the Children have received the 20 fcs from your dear sister. At all events I shall ask the next time. Why has Chable left the school? Is he invalided? - General Kennett is the grandfather of the lady at Honore who has the smallpox (Mrs Chamier) He expected that very day I saw him to hear of her death. It is a happiness to know that she sought the Lord earnestly.

Your news of Mrs Cantis made me laugh! Of course we might have expected that she would feel very uncomfortably there.

Mrs Ecklin has written some fine letters to her son in law (W. Hoch) - I read them today. What a resolved decided crossbearing Spirit - I hope she may have nourished the same in the daughter! Who is indeed a very open, soundhearted creature. But farewell now! The Lord with you. Greet the children Heb etc
 Yours affly
 HG.

