Rv. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, pd

<30>* Chirakal 1rst June 51
 <Sunday>*
Dear Papa

After all Moglg will have reached Mang. without any rain we all laughed when he assured us that he would come to his home day. People are very distressed about their pady fields, all is dryd up they have made some sacrifices to obtaine rain; but the sun shine still. David' third tooth has made its appearence and the fourth is very close. Hebich has been very much amused of your corrections in my last. I for my part thank you as an humble wife.

Our Teman has left us Friday evening with her two girls, she was again very ill humour for some days, and Miss K said now this woman must be flogged Joseph shall come for this purpose. Then she repeated what she had told many times that is, she would have her tow daughters and go way. she said also if you will not give me both I will go to the Catcherry were my __________ the father of Rosine is and he will write for me. So we gave her both children who showed joy to follow their mother. If she does not join the Mopplas which Jacob believes she will soon return I think. Wednesday Mrs Young and Cummin came to visit us, his caughs is better. Mrs West has promised to spend a day; but we have not yet seen her here, her two daughters are riding and galloping about this they know beautifully, they are said to be pretty girls specially the youngest. So at last the cooly has arrived, are the clothes spoiled by the juice of the Ginger? Is it not strange that the box was so waiting at Kaity they knew well you wanted it much. I did not show your father's letter to Muller he was pretty cool himself and I did not know whether I might show it to him. The chinese fan or rather the screen? it has come with some German things through Mrs Muller at Madras, she has sent us a few things which had not sold. If it can be sold one Rp as it is marked all right if not give it to any body. 
Jacob's special Salam and thanks for the Almanac you kindly sent him. Arabella has never mentioned any thing of Nani's letter as disatisfied except with Mrs I<rion>* who did not like him to read his bible while F. was at play. It may be he has not enough with 3 1/2 as food is very dear there. Paul is very cross he does not want to hear any thing from papa neither from Etty. he has plenty urumbu <Ameisen (prickly heat)>* to be rubbed continually, David is nice and very well, his teeth come without any trouble. 
The small poks is again in Tah‚, the mother of Israel has got it; she is put aside from the other people so we hope it will not spread, Elise is still of this world; but very weak. The patala woman is in Jacob's house very ill she will soon d‚part it seams; but she is happy, she has allways been very nice; now she is very patient. When I ask her have you much pein? she says no mam only small peines. I have nothing in the world I go with joy, to my Lord I am a poor sinner he has saved Now with love to all and to all
 Yours afftly J. Gundert

