Rev H. Gundert, Kotirghery, paid

<42>* Chiracal 6th <Juli 51.>*
 <Sunday>*
Dear papa

Missi will write a part of this instead of me, because I must do it with the light and I cannot do it will because of mine eyes1 which are weak. I expected to have a letter from you to day; but nothing; though it is the fourth day, Saturday morning our little Julia was buried, and to day in returning from Cannanore we have all gone on the burial ground to depose the corpse of our little Raisely <Rösle>*, she spoke untill the end, she answered that she desired to go to the Lord, Gnanamuttu's wife spent the whole night with her as she was rather restless untill this morning early when she died. Dorcas is somewhat better, other sick people very much the same, the small pox is among the boys at Tah‚. Samuel Susana's brother, Jonathan son of Nathanael and another one, Mr Hebich is now decided to give up Tah‚, he has shown us the plan how he will build in his house, the little room where we usually go will be taken away and the ground of the garden untill the wall where the water runs will be raised till the level of the verandah so that piece of the ground together with our little room will become two large rooms, with a large verandah it will cost 860 Rup. Hebich told us to day before Capt Young that he was going to ask <leave to> the Comitee leave to build, they laughed heartily when I asked whether he would wait for their answer before he begins building. The Begbies are not yet decided about leaving because of the weather which is rather pluvieux. I gave them the Karalulpathi* and proverbs Mango pickles will be sent when Mrs Fitzgerald goes up, she has been very poorly of late, it seems her complaint is want of emulation* <circulation> in the blood provoked by somewhat wrong in the heart, when she has slept some hours, she awakes quite cold and as suffocated then much rubbing and moving makes her again lively, as change does her usually good she came with us this evening, and will try fore some days how it will be, therefore I had no time to write to you as long as it was day, and tomorrow morning it may be I shall find very little too, I heard today of the death of your old General Gibson who will have died the very day you wrote that he appeared to be a little better, next Sunday we shall have the Lords supper, D.V.

I have been very sorry to hear today that Hebich had not yet written to you. He has began the report but does not know when he shall have time to finish it, He was just sending to Moegling to a letter he had received from Greiner regarding all their transaction. 1Hebich pense que Moegling a plusieurs torts Il dit que Gren* est trŠs sobre dans ses jujements et entout. ils sont mieux qu'ils n'‚taient, toutes fois il ni aura pas un reel mieux jusquace que chacun d'eux ait la grace de reconnaitre ses torts et les confesse. Mme Fitz a eu une nuit passable beaucoup mieux qu'… Cann. I hope to get a letter tomorrow to day is the 5th without. Adieu we are all well love to all
 Yours afftly J. Gundert

