Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<29>* <28 Mai 51>*
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa

Meogl brought me yours of the 23d for which accept my thanks. Give the same to dear Sophie who has rejoiced me much with her kind letter. I have no doubt that dear Eddy is happy and does not feel any loss Nani himself seams much more cheerful and happy and likes his present Mistriss very well. 
Mglg has told me that he is perfectly sure that at this time 12 month afterward you will be in perfect health, and if I like he will give me a writing about it.

I believe the Lord will restore you in his own time having perfected his own work and magnify himself. The devil will then be ashamed and hang his head down in turning his back having finished what he had been permited to do. Hebich probably writes you to day so you will <have>* many news. Arabella is quickly writing a few lines to Nani as I did not expect to send to day she did not know of the opportunity. Mrs Groves letter I have sent to H. a few days ago to be sent to you I am not going to write so soon, I must first pay my debt to Mrs Ostertag not that she has written; but has sent the seringe I had asked with one for children too, how is the old one goin on? Do you still require it so often as before? If you wish the new one I might send it by the next opportunity which may occur? Mglg beside seed has brought a book which Missi and myself are taking care with thanks to you. 
{I Vau will wite to papa and Ety and thank for their letters Good Ety I love you though now and then I say Ety __________ I shall be glad to see you, kiss you and lear<n>* from you All what you have learned on the hills, I pay for you do you also for me? David is a good boy he play with me, out I very naughty make noise while he sleeps and awake him, Mama said I must have the whipp; but I do not like the __________ if mama would give it me to play I would like it but not on my botom. Some time I tell mama she may give me _______ with it but it is only to try to get it in my hand. I have two chabuc* and I ride the horse with them in both hands. Now my fu is nearly gone, the urumbus are dicreassing beause it is cold there are is some time rain and I like to run to it though mama say no. David runs after me but he cannot catch me because he walks on four legs using his hands as feet. he catches mama's dress to stand up and then cries as much as he can so that mama must take him, then he shows the place of the milk and will no more go way, some time mama gives him _______ than he is quiet and goes to sleep. he is a great pet of Hebich. Now Adieu my dear Etty and kisses to you and to papa.}

Mglg thought to have heard some where that the cooly of arraroot had arrived. the one you had send me while I was on the hills was no less than 28 days on the road; but surely they should be punished! I have told you that they went the Manantoday road Now peace be to you
 Yours aff J. Gundert

