Mrs Gundert, Mangalore, pd

3 Chir. 25 Oct 51

My dear wife

It is Saturday night and you are probably at Manjeshwara. I hope soon to hear of your safe arrival at Mangalore. Thanks for your letter from Cavay. I think dear Paul will by this time have learned to travel a little, and trust that his throat is quite free. You will have got a note from me thro' Hebich, and another at your arrival at Mngl. Now there are few news, I told of course Arab. to write and hope she will have done so. Timoth from Chomb. has written to Nath to buy clothes for him (__________) and sent money: as there is nothing else in the letter, I do perhaps but to keep it here for him to execute if things be not done beforehand by someone else. 
Tell Heb that Barnabas fell asleep in the Lord this morning about 4 o'clock.

You will have heard of Josenh. having answered Miss K's petition. Now you will at once hear about a successor for her. But I have written from the hills to Sarasin, that we would prefer once trying help such as we can obtain in this country. Now you are in a place where you can hear much more about it, but take care that you be not too easily caught. If Josenhans did himself become surety for a person as help, I would feel more at liberty, but where Committees and Ladies' societies manage the affaire, and perhaps are led chiefly by the wish to do something, and to oblige one another etc I am very backward to become the blind recipient of their gifts. Now may the Lord show us his will!

Dear Fred. is very nice, gives not too much trouble, is also no great Courmacher, but rather fond of playing in the dwelling house, in preference to the school. He drinks my Kissinger water and makes the horse "run", that is walk quicker than asses generally do. He has a good seat - David did also today for the first time mount the pony but he is not quite well, has a cold, with the nose running - he bears it well however and is fond of visiting me and being visited by Papa. I find also that he loves Musick or noise which is like Musick such as the piano is able to produce. His sleep is very good.

Chr Müller arrived this morning early - but did not notify to me his arrival. I think of passing Sunday night at Cannanore. I saw Frere's yesterday. But I think this is already mentioned in the last letter.

Sunday morning - David had a pretty good night, but the cold is not yet quite gone, so he got oil. Here a letter for Nath. I was called to a Nayer bitten by a snake and hope that he may recover, so I lost much time by it for letter writing, but gained I hope some thing with the people. May the Lord have mercy on them and give us a free entrance!
 Ever yours HG

Kiss Vau and greet the Buhrers etc

