Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<43>* Chiracal 9th July <51>*
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa!

Thanks for yours of the first which reached me the 8th that was rather long. On monday I told you that our two little girls had left this world, today our children have gone to Can. to bury Elise who died this morning at 5 o'c. she was happy and ready to meet her Saviour. The second night of Mrs FitzG was not so good as the first therefore on Tuesday at noon her husband came to fetch her saying she would return after one or two days to change again. I expected to find more in her since the work which took place some time ago; but she is still very much taken up with the world and drinks still much bear with the reason <idea> that it will worm and sustain her; in this drinking business they are both I believe much hindered to follow God. I liked Mrs C, but I was I think expecting too much and therefore did not find her so advenced as I thought. She has by nature some what harsh to which she sticks still as* if it was a virtue, specially in her judgments regarding others.

Tomorrow Hebich will bring along Cpt Car<r>* woh for a long time wishes to see Cirkel*; I am very glad of it as I had never an opportunity to shake hands with him as yet. He is very friendly with H. and approves every word of his I have heard.

I shall try about the __________ for Mrs B. Francis thinks that it is much dearer here than at Mang. I shall send it by the FitzG. woh will be glad of any opportunity to do any thing for us. Cpt Y<oung>* has some scotch newspaper would you like to have them?

Missy has not been very well these days I hope it is but a cold wh will soon pass! Our boys are very merry, as soon as Vau begins singing David follows him with all his might. he has six teeth, he is quicker than Vau was in all his mouvements. I can scarsly keep him, in no time he runs very far in the rain and sun. The more he grows the more like me he is, so do not imagine to find any thing fine at your return, but what do I say! I ought to praise God that he is such a healthy and strong boy never mind his face. I hope to send to dear Etty some sugar seed or seed sug* which Mrs West brought. We are very thakful to hear so good accounts of our beloved F. I send you a passage which has been much blessed to me during my sickness. I do not know in which book it is but I know its value "Ceux qui s'attendent … l'Eternel reprenent de nouvelles forces, ils courreront et ne se lasseront pas ils marcheront et ne se fatigueront point. Poor Mrs Fitz does not seem to hang to any promises; remedies, changes, home, etc are all her talks, she deserves it <sickness> from the Lord she says; but there is little life. still no small begining is to be dipised therefore may God help and bless her. All here send you love, every thing as usual. my love to the dear B. Kisses to Et.
 Yours J Gundert

