Rev. H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

<22>* Chiracal 4th May <51.>*
 <Sunday>*
Dear papa

Saturday evening the Vandy man brought me yours of the 28th for which many thanks. Dear Frederic will not get the new shoes Miss K. made for him, the shoemaker made them much too large so that they would be of no use at present. Time will soon be over for dear Etty time runs very fast a few showers more and Nani pack the boxes and the coolies come to carry my dear Etty I am thankful to God to hear he is a good boy. I hope Nani prays some time with him. I send him many kisses for his kind letter through Miss Irion. I have not heard any thing about your report of the school home. 
I shall have made before your room what you mention. Miss Kegel has heard you before you went away saying that you would have the little mud verande pulled away and put stones instead of it. You do not seem to mean this in you letter! What you have heard about Israel is not regarding the father of Nahomi; but of the pensionaire. The Israel of Anjercandy is idle that is the chief complaint of Hebich, he wished to go way; but at present he seems rather satisfied, his mother is at Tah‚ Thank God for his preserving Moegling so wonderfully.

Irion has written to H. for a girl for his book binder when he heard of me that he is a rog (this I got from Miss K.) he said then we shall not give him a sister; whom to give him? Thomas has asked for the Darwah Martha we are rather glad of it; for she is not so nice as I expected, she is very idle and not afraid to tell stories.

Hebich did not forget his birthday he spoke to us about it, his spiritual birthday is soon coming and as it is on a sunday he will make it public to the church, he has just told me I have been at Cannanore, heard about Esdras, spoke chiefly to those who mary "wifes given by the Devel" "the covent devils" then to parents regarding the way to bring up children. After the preaching I paid a visit to Mrs. FitzG. whom I had not yet seen since the gracious visitation of the Lord, she is very diffrent from what she was aware of the mare that in talking she looses the peace, and is subject <up> to tell things which are not realities. I liked her very well. Mr Hebich has had pity upon us and has taken in his house for some time Uniama who was still very troublesome.

Saturday Mrs Young and Mrs Begbie with her daughter were here, the mother seems to be sorry to have been wandering so much in the world, they attend Hebich continually, she still talks plenty, her daughter pretty nice, but cannot understand why one must leave the world! She is not ready to renounce to it though her mother declaims against it; but on the whole the daughter is perhaps more near the truth than the ald people. They speak very good of Mrs Francis, she has been very faithful to them all. They esteem her much as well as he though he is not so advance<d>* as She, said they!

Our house has been well covered this year, it does not leak at all. We have rather a cool weather, raining a little nearly every day, it is quite a piculiar time, Hebich who like me prefers the heat to the rain is alway tiried and could sleep the whole day from the weather. I have headach; but it will soon pass. David is rather cross from his irruption which is chiefly on his chin and under it ad some on his chest. Vau has been pleased of your letter. The arrowroot cost 5 1/2 Rps and 2 two Rps have been advence to the cooly so seven and half you shall ask from Mr Rice.

The Youngs do not wish to begin a corespondance with Mrs L. they have not the papers you mention and have no mind to get them.

