Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

<9>* Ottac. 23 Maerz 51
 <Sunday>*
Dear wife

Yesterday I received yours of the 18th. I am glad of so much zeal as you have, and am not as yet in a position to grumble about your letters, but acknowledge that you do as much as you well can. Paul also deserves all thanks for his addition to your writing dear fellow I hope his _______ does refresh him well at nights, and I wish David all happiness to have such a jolly example in his brother. Frederick is quite rejoiced when I relate to him the stories out of the letter. These are not the moments when he becomes homesick. but when Christian sleeps, or as long as he went with his mother to Kotirgherry, then he sometimes has ennui and remembers "Mama acku" with some force. Also yesterday when Mglgs servt came along with him, he remembered that this man had accompanied us and cooked his soup. So he ordered him at once to go along with him Mama acku and to cook "Maccadonis" for him. Poor Theman what shall I say to her but I suppose she has eaten before this. As for Martha I do not think that there are as yet dangerous symptoms, perhaps you ought to give to her some poly...1 pills (you know those with gold like points) - Tell Paul that Fred laughed heartily at his drinking bokle tea - I am glad you are satisfied with the envoi from Bombay. When I hear from Hebich about the bill I shall answer with thanks. - We all were rejoiced that God was with dear H. on the feast and gave the Raja's people some sense - Give our love to him

Now let me see what are my news first on the 22d Saturday Metz returned from the Khundas quite happy for having found hearers, he had on the return kindled the grass with his glass, but the fire increased so much that there was some danger for him in passing, thro' some narrow way. Then came Mrs Irion from Kotirg. Fred was full of joy to see Chr. again. The news from K are good, but nothing particular except perhaps that that Capt Hoare, (a Brother but with a worldly wife) whose horse died after Buhrer has had it to Ootac. has since lost another poney. 23d Sunday Mglg came. He is still not better, for after 6 hours sitting he is tired, and when he has steam letters to write besides that etc, he feels it immediately. - I forgot to say that Mrs Mitcheson with her sister came to Mrs Buhler on Saturday. She remembered you kindly, spoke also of Jette etc with some love, but there is very little to be mentioned of what transpired during the visit. All common place talk and not a breath of life. I heard afterwards from Mrs Buhler that she is exceedingly tried by the absence of her husband (who is at Bombay or at sea) and that she sometimes thinks she cannot bear it any longer. But perhaps these are the Lord's drawings to wean her from earthly things. - This 24th Monday afternoon I came here to drink tea with the Groves in the evening, but am disappointed to find that Mglg and Sanders have gone there already for dinner. I shall however find my way without difficulty, and will when returning add a word more. - 9 o'clock Here I am again and find a letter from you, but indeed with sad news. I trust that the Lord has supported you during that trial, and that he will deliver you from the fear lest others be infated by such a dreadful example. It is indeed a call on us to watch and pray. And yet it would all be in vain but for our watchman that sleepeth not, our Highpriest that intercedes for us without being wearied. Let us trust Him that He will bring good even out of this evil. This death of Marie Acha grieves me particularly, as she sought at last something from me and got but little: and it is so far a reproach to me. I really wish that the Lord give me both the strength and the joy of speaking again in His name. It looks to me sometimes as if the strength would soon be found, if only the joy did exist more fully. The Lord and Saviour of our souls and bodies will do what is right far above our thoughts and prayers! - Dear Mrs Gr remembers you very friendly. Her daughter Mary is with her, but I saw but little of her. Mrs Coffin - quite in the old style, no mention of Hebich. Jessie at home. John Gr. now on his way hither, at Bellary. Mögling somewhat better today after a long sleep. Now one wish - try to write a short letter to Mrs Bühler to thank for her kind reception of your invalids and all the trouble she has with us. I mean a letter written by your hand. You may write me so much less. Farewell dear wife and may grace and peace abound to you and ours
 Yours HG

