Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<59>* Chiracal <7/8 Sept 51>*
 <Sunday/Monday>*
Dear papa

I have now been some time without letter from you I suppose because of your visit at Oti. I was glad meantime to hear from dear Sophie to Marie that your are pretty well and Etty did not cry at your going away; but had tooth ach I hope it is past though it may perhaps return often if the teeth are bad. I should have sent off this this morning; but could not manage it. As Paul was still poorly the Youngs have invited me to go to them in order to see the Dr. So on Saturday I went the Dr having ordered a powder and a dose of oil requested to see the motion of the child so I had to remain for to day sunday. When the Dr came this morning the child had not had any stool so he had to come again after noon, He says that the liver does not act properly. so that dear Vau will have to take powders for some time. I am glad to have at last consulted a Dr for the dear boy for whom I felt anxious for some days he has become very thin and restless in sleep; May God now bless the remedies he is taking a strickt diette is to be observed I have been too weak with the child regarding his food; but I trust he will soon recover and I lear a good lesson! I shall go again to the dear Youngs on Wednesday and return here I hope with H. on thursday.

In my next I shall have to send you the account. Hebich will send you what he has in his house. All here is as usual, I was glad to return again in our own house there is nothing like "son chez soi" home. You will also be glad to injoy again your home, and soon we shall enjoye our real home not made of earth home were no sorrow, no sin, no sickness shall disturb our rest and joy. David was very good during my absence.

Monday 8th I receive your letter many thanks As soon as there is an oportunity for the hills I shall send the tidies for the General. Mrs Chamier has died happy in the Lord he is well too in his mind. Mrs L it appear has been the mean to bring them to the Lord. Dr Foulies is making fish liver oil of the best kind at 6 ans per pound!

Chable left the school for his health sake.

Now grace and peace be with you love from all
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert
8th Septber

