Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

 Ponany 29 Sept 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

The evening of the 27th we set out from Palghat in a carriage like ours from Chittoor to Palamcottah lent by Mr Brett. We reached Ottepalayam before sunrise, where horse and bandy with Saman was waiting for us. Here a boat was procured to drop down the Ponani river. It ought to have been accomplished within 24 hours, but the boat was covered but too heavy the river too shallow - so we had a hot day before we reached Tirtalla, where Fred. at least got some milk in the bangalow and was glad to see the horse keeper (a Nair Pangu - I should like to keep him if he remain - I procured him in Palgh, having had to send back the poor fellow procured in Coimb. who understood nothing.). About 8 o'clock we returned from the Bangalow to the boat. But the 2 men were too tired and so we had to remain quietly in the same place. Today now and then with some rain we came down the river to Ponany where we stay at William's bangalow see sea and Pattimars, but do not know when we shall find a good time for going on. So I thought it best to let you know that we shall not go till we have a nice time for it. It looks still rainy, and there is then of course no wind. I hope you will be preserved from anxious thoughts and wait quietly till we go on - I should not like to have to go by land. The trouble is so much greater. Feddy is in very good spirits, tho' today he has not had a drop of milk, I ate with him half the Loquat jelly which Mrs Cockb. has sent to you. It was our only dinner. But now Nanny has bought a fowl and I hope all will soon look like a dinner.

Farewell. With love to all
 Yours HG

