Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<54b.>* Chiracal 22 August <51>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa

I have already thanked you for yours of 14th but not answered it. I do hope we shall not have to go home again, I have no wish for it, Miss Kegel has written yesterday to St according to your advice I think. She wold rather have said no at once still she has been obedient perhaps some what for her own self; more humilit‚ and begging from him may yet move her. 
I am glad to hear Etty is well, he is no more eating sand I hope! I am like so in pleased you have mind to have the cookrooms covered with tiles it is I think important, it has often troubled me having such careless people as we have.

On tuesday Israel's mother died he is very low himself has not spoken for days already how sadly (these people for whom the Devil made such noise at first) are going off May God have mercy on Nahomi and make better things of her she is much afflicted.

Vau and David are better you would be astonished to see Paul how gentle, how good he is he can sit for a full hour eating his piece of bread and butter of which he is very found, many pieces he will eat in a day, He is quite satisfied in his sheet and does not cry if I stay by him D is not good the fellow seems to fell that I have a wish to wean him he is set on his pray* more than ever if he see me going out he cries more than he ever did: however I hope a better time will come

Capt Carr who has just sent us some oranges says that many children are sick at Cannanore from colds. Here we are all well Inica's hand is not yet well but it will come by and by.

I hope God is going on with you blessing you spiritually and bodily, preparing you for his work, so that by and by you may also say it was good for me to be afflicted. I now run joyfully in his path.

Thurday evening come Jacob from Tellicherry they are all well, but poor Barnabas who had gone with Hebich's people has been brought back with the small pox, when they arrived there he felt unwell and vomited; so Heb. did not take him to Chombala expecting he would be well at his return; but the pox had made its appearence he has taken all the boys to Cannanore. 
Now dear papa Adieu love to all and from all
 Yours aff J. Gundert

