Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

16 (Kaity) Ottac. 14 Apr 51
 Monday
Dear wife

Mglg brought me yours of the 8th on Saturday - many thanks for it: (But may I beg of you no more to put a y before ears and eyes.) I hope Obrien's little girl is by this time considered out of danger. I am glad Mrs Lascelles has after all gone to Cannanore. Mrs Ward had brought news that her father intended to take her in her boat to Honore from Calicut direct. Irion wrote of Timotheus that in passing thro' Tellicherry he could hardly bring his lips together. Paul is I hope kind enough to keep the play things in some order till Fred. comes and sees what fine things Mr West has brought for them. I told him of the horse. You ought also to thank in my and Fred's name. - Poor Denholm's - I wonder how long this great access of light and life will last, and where he will get the next supply when he feels again empty and dry. - As for Johanna what can I say - If she could marry there would be more hope of her staying in spite of relations etc. - Vedamuttu is a vautrien and I believe any thing possible of him, after he has thus slighted the last effort made to save him. These people expose themselves to a heavy condemnation already here on earth, and I fear we have yet many over whom we shall have to mourn, for not recognizing the time of their visitation. - Today Fred. has come here in his steamer. He was very glad to see the lake. Nath. had not sense enough to ask first where Mögl. lived, so they had to take him first to Hodges, and from there over the bridge till behind the Rom. Cath. Chapel. However he liked the ride in his ohom. Mrs Gr<oves>* has sent some goosebelly's jelly, which he will be very glad of. But the nondri on the lake is the grand attraction and as there is today the prayermeetg he may accompany Foulkes, who will also come, in the boat. - Now the prayermeeting is over, it was fine and a subject of thanks - there was Winslow who presided, (remembers you very kindly) sang, read Joh. 17 prayed chiefly about Union, then Sanderson, prayed for us sick. He called upon Dr Schmid, who then related something about his doings with the Rom Cath Miss[ionar]y and prayed for the Romanists. Followed Rice, who read 2 Tim. 2.3. and made some remarks. He prayed also with confessing Missionary sins: Mögling concluded with Ps. 133. and a hearty prayer. Besides these 5 there was W's son in law Dulles, tried in a similar way with myself, then Foulkes and the 3 brethren, so that with myself there were as many as the apostles without Judas as one observed. Mglg quickly added, well and if Mr Caldwell joins us the next time, we will make him our Matthias. He had been prevented by sickness from coming. - This morning I walked to the post, there was time enough before the opened to go to the churchyard and see Flora Br's and Casamajor's grave. There was also a tomb of Mrs and Miss Sullivan died Aug and Sept 1838 As this happend during our wanderings you may perhaps not be aware of it. The Inspector is angry with Mglg also in his letter to this station (which therefore is not shown to Mglg) as if he had reported falsely about the cost of Kaity etc! He asks Metz about the weaving business, with some anxiety, because now after Haller has been sent out for this express purpose, a letter comes from Mang. saying that it is a nonsense to send a weaver, as people in this country know much better to weave, than any* one* from Europe etc. How bad to write such things af... time when they may influence the Committee ...eedings. Josenhans therefore says "happily or unhappily this reached us only after Haller had left Europe." - In secret I tell you, because you are so happy in the Lord, I am nearly decided to stay here longer. In about a week more I shall let you know determinatedly. I think I shall then go for the Monsoon to Kotirgh. Still it is a secret. When decided I shall write all I want. (Nath. will also require some clothhelp? I my European shoes formerly with spurs etc Fred. some shoes,) this I say only lest you be surprized when it comes. But now farewell. Fred eats Mrs Groves jelly (sent to Sanderson) and sings most contentedly. At 5 o'clock the boat will come for him. Give my love to dear Heb Miss Kegel the Young, Missy and the whole Church
 Ever Yours HG.

