Mrs Gundert, Chiracal

37 Kotergh 27 Aug 51
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Lest I forget it let me first tell you what Bührer mentioned today only. Irion told him that Addis in Coimb. said plainly to him I am glad you are going to occupy Palgh. I shall give over to you my Catechist and what we have there of Christians. - Ir. then observed that Heb. seemed to consider Palgh. as his own sphere, but was mistaken -, that whoever will come there, will find also hard work as on other stations (not that easy sort of thing, which Heb seemed to expect). Moreover he had heard Huber preach extempore in English and thought it a very creditable performance.

Yesterday yours of the 22d arrived. I was sorry to see that the smallpox had again made its appearance may God help dear Br. Hebich out of this long trial! I am especially concerned for the poor Heathen's sake, for they see now that those lately escaped out of the Devil's land are among the first carried off - last year Chalien Cannen and his brothers - this year Isra‰l etc - now Barnabas - even Thomas family is an instance. May the Lord not allow them to harden themselves by these thoughts. If we were required to give advice to Him, I would certainly counsel Him, to show to all the unbelievers that those who came to Jesus are better off than before - not without trouble or persecution, yet in such manner that the happy consequences be palpable to all. But it is foolish to talk thus. May we humble our selves for the offence, which God's secret ways are still now and then causing to our weak minds and feeble faith!

I am glad Miss K. has taken some time to consider. There may be some illusion as to Capt C's intention, and at all events you ought to look that there be no false imagination in her eyes, else she might be placed between 2 chairs, as we say in German. - So I see we are of one mind about the cookrooms. The real fear about this matter comes from Kaity, where they are always afraid for their roof on account of the Chimneys, which yet reach high above the house, whereas we have leaves and straw immediately above the fireplaces. How foolish would we look, when once the whole place was burnt, and we could only say, we did not think there was any danger in this proximity of fire and grass!

Vau is a rogue I see he can be so very nice and quiet, and yet will be so rough with his brother this must be mended. David ______________________ ________________ I hope he will let you carry out your plan, whenever you think the real time for it has come.

Weigle writes to me quite as a secret, how Bertha <Albrecht>*, who never visits a Canarese service, did for once go to hear Kies, and spoke afterwards of his sermon as very empty. In speaking of Samuel's history K seems to have confined himself to speaking about prophets and prophecy that it means to have a deep foresight etc etc But W. was rather pleased with Hiller and K. who had come for the meeting to Dh. Only they seemed determined not to let a single word ooze out! After all Hill. finished with a nice prayer.

As for me I am going on very cheerfully, and only wish you may have the same spirit richly given to you. I have nothing that I could wish, except that I am still more praying for my voice than praising for its restoration. But I can on the whole say I am not much troubled with impatience on this subject, and can pray with more satisfaction to my mind, feeling that I am heard, though it be not perhaps very apparent. I have had very happy hours in this corner room, which you probably know from your stay here, with one window looking to the Bazar and the other to the General's house. Fred. is also nice and talks often of the joy of returning. Today he asked, that if Elisa be really gone, Charley may be ordered after his return to pour daily water over him, head shoulders and all, and to look after his hair if it be well cleansed. Often he brings a stick or seed with important mien and says, this is to be kept till we go Mamma ___________ - He now talks more Tulu than Mal and more German than English. He has also learnt to give more equitably what is to be shared with his 2 compagnons. Of course I once punished him a whole day by giving nothing to him and dividing myself to the 2 others what he otherwise would have partaken of. 
My next I hope to write from Kaity, to which I will go D.V. on Friday morning, stay over Sunday (so as to see Col Coffin on Saturday) witness the baptism of the little one, and then return on Monday to begin the last month of quiet work here up!

Now farewell. Love to all! May grace and peace be with you abundantly in Christ Jesus!
 Yours HG.

