Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, pd

<31>* Chiracal 4th June 1851
 <Wednesday.>*
Dear papa,

Though I have not yet heard from you I will send this off In my next I hope to have a few lines for our sons. What shall I say I have no news all is here as usual, and fancy that the monsoon has not began. the Natives say that it will not come until the beginning of their month, it is pretty hot; but not too much. I like it well. Vau only wishes his urumbus to be off. Yesterday I was obliged to give him the whip, as soon as we have our meales he says "I have no sugar in my milk" so Miss helps him to find it out; but when it is no more to be got* with the spoon he cries again no sugar and so he goes on, even before he has tasted his cups he cries I have no sugar, and today forgetting it was dinner as he came to the table he said no sugar; but was rather ashemed to see it was not the milk time now he does not allow s* his brother to touch any thing of his toies; but a flogging makes him usually better. David is very well.

Hebich's Paul looks still very ill, his complaint has not ceased. When you write to Mglg please to tell him that amongst the 6 watches Mrs C. brought mine was not therefore I wish Mr Muller would mend the first one and the last one I have sent by Mglg

Velu came again to seek for some work; so I have given him charge of the Coconut trees which required some work round the foot the people of the vilage asked 2 1/4 for 100* and I have given him this work for the same price others would have had it made!

People at Tahe seam to be the same that is Elisa and Israel's mother. Hebich and his people can scarsly go to Tah‚ any more because of the Musulmans they spare neither floggs nor stones. H. has I think written to the collector about it.

It appears the rain is to settle now though the sun is shining there is now and then rain

Saturday I heard from you since not a word I expected I would get one from Nehemia before sending but nothing With kisses to My dear Etty and love from all here. Teman is at Telli. Wednesday.
 Yours aff J. Gundert

