Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<51>* Chiracal 11th August <51>*
 <Monday>*
Dear papa

Saturday the vandy man brought me yours of the 4th I am greeved to hear you are thinking of going to Salam. perhaps to spoil all the benefit you have now recieved. and how to go surly not without Nani. I beg you. Well if you think right to go take with you people who can help you on the road, that you may not be troubled nor exposed to the sun. I just return from Cannanore Cpt Y has very interresting newspaper he is going to send you. Marie has to day sent you her letter but she seems to be settled in her mind not to accept the man. But I think of an other person who may by and by make an offer. Il me semble que Cpt Carr lui paye toute attention. Il a aussi dit chez Capt Y. qu'une des Dlles … Chiracal avait "a gracious smile, and fine expression." Sur ces mot Young a dit … sa femme I believe he goes there somewhat for one of these young ladies. It may be I am judging wrong but we shall see, he is a fine man I like him, he looks so humble, Hebich himsef gives him this testimony.

I wanted to ask you what kind of Medecine you gave to the little Mary for Epilepsy, she was much better after you had treated her, now she falls very often and hurts herself. Perhaps you could ask Holdwell. In returning from chapel we have paid a long visit to the Wests who send you love, the young ladies have plaied piano the father too Richard has showed his drowings. The little Nanny is a very pretty and amiable child, very graicous in manners.

Tomorrow the 11th Hebich goes to Anjercandy. then monday week after our Lord supper He will go D.V. to Tellicherry and Chombala with all his people even the soldiers if they could go. As I write David is sucking and pulling my paper. the children are pretty well I gave Rhubarb to Vau as his food did not digest well. these last days he went on "lollant" sucking a piece of bread just as his brother Etty used to do David' cough has much to do with teething I am sure though he has his 8 teeth Capt Young calls him Bishop Thomas, he is very strong, eats plenty. in consequence very fat, but very short. Nani has written to his wife that after two monthes she may perhaps look for him. The Begbies will be on the hills before this reches you. They have your oil and books you know. The Fitz have left the 6th. 
Now Dear papa Adieu with love from all and to all with thanks to dear Sophie for her kind note

Kisses to my darling Etty. If his papa goes to pay a visit abroad with Nani, he shall be a good boy with his little companions and Mama Buhrer who will soon bring him to Chiracal
 Yours afftly.
 J. Gundert

