Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<26>* Chiracal 18th may 1851
 <18 Sunday>*
Dear papa.

I just returned from Can. where I have heard a good preaching <Sonntg 18>* and seen the three brides taken by their bride grooms Lydia Philipp. Thomas. Darwar Martha Varid our big Elisa. Hebich is glad that it is over. Elisa looked rather nice, and he too. They have left for Tel. after their dinnar. Fredric Muller is expected here on wednesday in case Moegling stop not his way. She (Jane) has sent us a few Mangoes and a pine apple. no news! Thursday the Youngs paid us a visit, related how West had adorned his house to recieve his wife and children who came on Wednesday! he has put every where curtains so as to be like the tabernacle mady by M. A bell is inside of the bed which Mrs W. shall pull or ring at midnight just at 12 O.C. then the whole family shall get up to pray. Wether they will like this I doubt, for the children are said to be brought up; but for the world. Yesterday there came a letter from Mrs Groves. if it was worse I would send it; perhaps I may do so by and by whe Hebich send you written papers, to which I join one from Mrs. Weig. which does not contain more news than what you have had. I have made ready what you mention for Moegling so that we may not forget. An other play thing has still be given by Mr Jackson which he had forgotten the other day, it is a fine little Vandy drown by a boy mouving his legs along in pulling. I keep it for Etty. Vau has not seen it. So Etty may be sure that he shall find the whole in a good state. Any thing which comes in Vau's hands is destroyed, the pickture book for in, is nearly no more existing. I was glad to hear Etty is pretty well, his brothers are well too the seapoks has nearly passed away. Charly and Salome are their keepers. If Moeg wants the copy of this Anj. list Jacob has it. Doncon has reported at Bang that he had been very ill treated at C. he is in the hospital sick with fever. Jacob's special Salams
 Y Aff J. Gundert

