Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

1 Kotirgherry 17 May 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

It is only yesterday I sent off Nro 26. Now I begin a new series but with a short letter, for I am tired with my ride from Kaity, therefore Hebich and Missy must wait - Mgl left Monday but had to send his horse from Avalanche for one shoe. On Friday Bühler saw his horse a second time at Ottacamd, it havg. been sent back from Sispara for an other shoe. So M will have to fast there 4 days! Give him plenty Selams and the enclosed letters to read, and then send them back to me. You may have all of them read to you. - Mrs Ir. makes strange things in her reports about Fred. I think I know much better. It was only during that extraordinary wind that she could suppose Fr. was cold But he never complained of it. It is strange to write such things to you for no purpose but to frighten you a little. - Mglg has given his black trowsers to Freddy and just a load of hot things for me (flannel coat etc) You will easily fancy that I shall order any thing needful for him, if what he has should not suffice. But now there is no want and I shall first see what the Cooly will bring. - I could not wait longer for the latter - Coolies from Calicut, who left on the 8th, brought 2 boxes to the Buhlers on the 15th. - I am glad the Kerala Utp. is found. I supposed it easily found, because the name is written on paper outside. Do not send it, except I should ask for it. - Mrs I<rion>* told me that Elisa is the person asked by the bookbinder - I am glad of Theman's flogging, that is of the effect it had on her and hope she will take care in future. - - I left Kaety this morning soon after Eddy, after a considerable hubbub with the Coolies, who found every thing too heavy to make sure of extra wages - I did not care for it, but Metz got them at last under sail. Then I saw the Onslow's at Coonoor, he poor man can not walk (the nerves of the spine are somewhat lamed) she is truly nice, was deeply affected by Gr's quarrel with Minchin (it cost her many tears, for she owes "much to both) and by Gr's "being in debt", which I did not know before. Their 7 children are with Hake She was glad of the visit. I did not quarrel, but could say something to cheer them. But you will have enough to read in the enclosed letters. When you have quite done (and Heb and Mglg) let Heb send me a "written paper", with his Committee letters, also Mrs Weigle's which is just announced as having been sent off to you

Here we have arrived - at 3 PM just before a rain. It was hot, but I came very well over it and write this after tea, because tomorrow is Sunday! Mglg perhaps still at Sispara! Mrs B's letter I suppose you need not answer now, but write after her confinement. Now my love to all Also Mrs Buhrer sends Selams, will answer soon what she got from you. Tell me what day you received this, it leaves Sunday morning. The children here are well and zuthunlich.

Now may peace and grace abound to you all
 Yours HG
