Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

20 Kotergh. 13 July 51
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

I am sorry that you were so long without a letter. Mine went off the 27th. 29th June. 2 Jul 5. 8. 11th July. So you see I never allowed more than 3 days to pass before I wrote. I hope all will have arrived after some delay on account of the stronger rains. - It must have been sad to you to give up the 2 little girls to the Lord, but what a pleasure to hear a child wish forgiving to the Lord. Am I right in taking Rösele for the sister of Dorcas? I am not quite sure on account of those changes of names that once occurred. But if so, it is again an accession to Thomas' family in a better place than both ___________ and __________ are. How was Th's sister affected by it, and does she progress - or has she still her relapses? 
I am sorry that Mr Hebich thinks again of building in a hurry. How quick he is with his costly plans! He may just build enough to spoil his present house and compound, which is already full enough, whereas outside of Cannanore he might get good ground and healthy free room for a trifle without greater building expense. Might he not at all events put the boys into one of the soldier houses, till better arrangements can be made. I should think even the place where the boyschool and the free room before the 2 soldier houses stands to be far more adapted for building - firmer and higher ground, freeer space not the damp vicinity of the ditch, and above all the own house separated from all the inconveniences of a number of native boys. Instead of breaking down the Strumpf, he might break through the stable and open a passage into that higher ground, which seems so far more healthy and agreeable to all parties. But above all he ought to take no step before Josenh's arrival, who hopes to land in Bombay abt the 5th October. Whatever he builds before is forced work for which no excuse can be found, as it is all done in the middle of the Monsoon. Taliparambu and Palghaut are thereby put again out of sight for a year or two. In my inmost mind I nearly look upon it as a sign that it was not quite God's will that Heb. should have a boy's institution whilst there are others with Brethren to look after them. If he would be content with something like an orphanhouse, I have nearly a feeling that there would be more blessing on it: but I trust that sooner or later he will see that he would do better to entrust those who are once to do the Lord's work to institutions where their minds are likely to come under some regular training. But enough of talk on a matter for which I have no responsibility. - I shall be glad to see Mrs Fitzgerald. I think she would find houses cheapest at Kotergh. as they are now nearly all empty. West has written to me to ask the Bishop if he would not buy either of his houses. Will you occasionally inform him that the Bishop left Ott. long before his epistle arrived (which happened this morning) and that certainly he did not admire Mt Pleasant.

We had today the Lord's supper with Mörike, Nath. and Eva. But in the evening Nath. gave us some account of his fellowservants' doings, which will make it nearly necessary to remove him. He sought by all means to allure the girls whilst he has a wife near him, and she only laughs at his unclean jokes. It is a very bad air for Nath. and I can only pray that the Lord may keep him, for he has little outward help; the best is, that he has little to do with these people his business with the children keeping him mostly in the house. They tried to make him drink and all that sort of thing. 
Capt Briggs came 2 days ago - he is a brother but not as yet very communicative. He is rather embarrassed with the property the General <Gibson>* left to him, as he does not know if his wife will really come out from Engl to reside here. - Mrs Cockb. has a cold caught last Sunday, as she says because the room was not well warmed: she therefore wished to have the service transferred to her house. I had some fight with her. Buhrer stood firm and so her plan was defeated. Formerly service was held in her house to the inconvenience of the few Eastindians, who of course go rather into the padre's house than into a fine drawing room. - <">*Gr<einer>* trŠs sobre dans ses jugemens?<">* just as you take it. As sober as want of love and a persuasion of being always in the right can make a Brother who certainly has much experience and a general desire that things should go in the right way. I would trust Gr's judgments in many things, but where M<ögling>* is concerned I give very little for it. If love be first proved to exist I have very little doubt the judgment will follow after in due time. Gr. does not see the greatest contradictions in all he has to object to M. Still there is always hope that things will mend, as long as both parties do really strive to serve the Lord. (As the question is still about Herm. An. it is natural that Gr. relies on Heb's view coinciding with his. But I honour difference of views, as long as they do not estrange the hearts). - Fred. always very merry! Dear fellow - he often asks now for Liquorice, the name of which he sounds nearly like Neilgherries. When drinking his milk he says often Nei Zucker = No sugar and becomes very "sweet" Now farewell. Peace with you
 Yours affly HG.

Give my love to Hebich - we all sympathize with his anxiety and hope he may have soon occasion for praise.

