Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

<6>* Kaity 17th March 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Yours of the 10th arrived on the 14th just before sending away the last epistle to you and Hebich Mrs Lascelles was then here for a long visit and I proposed to her, or rather she promised at once to visit you and make a short stay at Chiracal on her return to Honore within less than a month. I shall then have an occasion for sending the 2 little presents for Elizabeth. I was pleased with what Mrs L related of her opportunities for doing good. May God accept of it for the sake of our Lord J Christ, whom she evidently wishes to serve, though I could wish there was a little less of speaking. Even our repentance is something which pleases better when shown by new acts than by confessions in which self may still play a certain part. But as I say I was pleased and shall try to repay the visit today. - Your account of Mrs H seems not discouraging, rather the contrary. I hope Mrs F takes something along from her visit, though you are still prevented from speaking much. You will continue not to force yourself to speak, seeing it may increase the evil beyond what you imagine. Dear David will I trust get over his vaccination quickly, if not sufficient it may be repeated after some months, but certainly not during the time he is cutting his first teeth. I wish he may soon allow you a better nights' rest. Möglg was glad to hear that Vau still remembered him kindly. He (M) came Saturday to see us all and Bührer who had arrived from Kotirgherry and brought good news of his wife and children. Dear M. is not at all well, very sleepy and evidently tired by the daily work in the Revision Committee. We shall try what we can to release him a little from his work. Sanderson who came yesterday morning, to partake with us all of the Lord's supper, seemed very anxious about him: he knows his state sufficiently as they live together in a little cottage. M. had a long talk with B, who begins to grow warmer with him. But he still complains f.i. of M.'s and my greater familiarity with Mör. than with him - and yesterday Buhrer also seemed to feel a little suspiciousness about Buhler. However the Lord gives us grace to do what is in our power to come nearer to each other and we were blessed together at His table. Sand. related of the Groves' (John Gr is just returning from Secunderabad) he also has seen the Hallidays' at Palhally (the sugarmanufactory) and liked them. - Weigle is about to take a journey with Coffin, only he is a little afraid of leaving his wife alone in a cholera season. - Hoch is quite happy to have received the first letter from his Pauline, whose parents send also greeting to us. - Yesterday you will have had Irion in Cannanore. I hope he will have been in good spirits.

Dear Fred. is very nice - passes no more any blood, also his stools are less frequent. As for myself I feel a daily improvement and should not be afraid of long walks etc though of course I whisper still, Sand. remarked that without any effort I whisper much more audibly. I am very lazy as to the work before me, but this may be excused by the want of my writing table and other studying comforts at home. I am merely a guest and must be content with passing my time with some ease. There was little milk here and the best cow died this night, but after some search I have at last found somebody who supplies me with a bottle of very good milk every day. Fred. is very glad of it and drinks tea (milk with water) to his heart's content. Now adieu the Lord be with you and dear Hebich, and bring him and his safely back from the feast. Mörike Mrs Ir. all send their Christian love  Yours HG

and the others Jacob etc. I bought a Cambly for Nath so he is not cold Selam to Miss K. Missy

