Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<60>* Chiracal <13/9/51>*
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa

Thanks for yours of the 6th We have been much rejoiced to hear of the god time you have had after returning from Kaity May God in his mercy continue to restore you intirely. I do not know what were the news in Huber's letter to Hebich. Hebich said there was a very bad spirit. Fritz of course would be glad to part with Huber and therefore wishes Palgaat for him I do not think Vedamuttu is in good terms with H.<ebich>* I have heard nothing about it, where could he have seen him? I think it will be right to send home the two boys as soon as possible this last sickness of dear Paul has <made>* me to think about it and desire it even! He is thank God better. On Wednesday I went again to the dear Youngs to see the Dr White he said to continue the powders which are composed of rhubarb and colomel it appears. On Sunday after preaching I shall still take Paul in the Ys house where the Dr will come and decide whether Paul is to take more m‚decine or no. he passes now a little blood in his stools; but it is probably the work of the medecine, on the whole he is better, sleeps nicely, has some appetite and is less cross: though his Ambac is still large. He begins to be content in being without a arge ooss and aravadi salt fish

The Lady qui est avec moi me demande trŠs souvent si tu na pas de nouvelle de Mr St soit par Moeg. ou d'autre personnes, ainsi lorsque ta lettre est arriv‚e je lui ai lu ce qui concerne la mission de Belary en lisant les mot "she is anxious to have some body to take charge of the girls" elle m'areta en demandant qui est inquiet ou d‚sire est ce St ou cette Dme Elle parait bien d‚cid‚e si Il ne lui ecrit pas de le laisser; par le fait quelques fois il me semble que dans le fond elle en souhaiterait une lettre; tandis que dans d'autre temps elle assure qu'elle sera trŠs heureuse s'il ne lui dit plus rien tout sera alors fini. Nous sommes de singuliers ˆtres dans de pareil cas. If poor John becomes a better man for having joined Strange never mind his having gone to him but it is to be feared he will run farther.

I hope Pauline E has a part of the self denial spirit and faith of her dear mother. I do not know what sais Hebich about Hoff's letter he is now so very busy that one can have no talk except what he is to do; he will have told you about the great baptism; amongst our people will be it appears Cognian his wife and mother. Maria the Calicut woman, then Coognicooty Vanati's daughter, the little Coogni Teman's girl, Joana and Mina that is to say ________________ to be received in the church if not baptized again! Matichis from Chombala whom we call Aline is also to be baptized Mr Heb thiks there is a movement in her, He wanted also to baptize Tasami but she will not a say I will remain in my old religion and pray to Mary, she shows a great deal of obstinacy and has shown that she knows how to tell faulse stories

Now I must tell Adieu the Wests are coming to spend the day to avoid the last races We have the Lord supper tomorrow G.W.

We are all pretty well
 With love Yours
 J. Gundert
Sept 13th

Hebich expects your account very soon
Miss Kegel sends you much thanks for your good letter she was very much comforted by it

