Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, ppd

<36>* Chiracal 21 June 51
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa.

Yours of the 14th I have recieved to day the 20th. Have I said that you write too often? no neither did I think it, what you call an hint is niether one, nor any thing against letter writing This you know very well and you only want to tease me dear father and Lordship; but never mind to day I am happily in a good humeur and can recieve your short note with the hope you will mend this wrong r‚sulation of yours. David is indeed better though he caughs still and is not very quiet at night. Paul is no more troubled with urumbu; and he eats much, too much chiefly meat when there is any on the table he leaves no rest until he has a famous portion, the other day we had a piece of fresh porck for which he cried much and wanted again and again, the consequence is that his head is rather hot, last night he was restless, this morning I gave him a dose of oil and hope he will soon be better. We are very glad to hear better news of sisters Irion and B. We have not heard anything about Kies Hebich said yesterday that he would wait till the 24the and write to him if no news had come till that time. Hebich has been at Tellicherry, came from there to us thursday morning, they were happy together, Irion has written under Hebich's letter to Albrech that H. had spoken his own heart so agreed in every thing with H. but this you will already know by Moegling I suppose. They are all well at Telli. Irion has become some what stauter since his visit on the hills. he has told Hebich that a wet sheet would cure him from his iruption. He is so enoied with it that he is willing to do any thing to get rid of it. You would be astonishe to hear him saying wheever "la demangaison) itching is begining "Oh Mama what shall I do? where shall I put my hands? my feet now bigin too! Oh I cannot bear it, it is too much, what shall I do if I scratch I bring peins not only of skin but peins of flesh! Now what do you think will help?" Miss Keg in her teachingway said you must have patience nothing she will help! he has tried your old pig's fat which seemed to relieve him a little, his hands, feet, and Chin are covered, at night he is awaken by the itching which troubles him much, he has had no answer as yet from the Collec. about the Maplas! Miss will write to Etty and give him plenty news of Vau, who is talking the whole day long, he has now learned to pronounce the consonants and repeats every thing he hears, Specially to provoque Miss Kegel he sais often Rogatchi it is a name I used to call him and as she does not like it he brings it again and again. Here is again a letter from my cosin, I have not written to Muller you will perhaps let him know through Moegling please? We have now many fine days, Nothing new among our children though now would be the right time! At Telli they will not give rice to Teman still I hope she will not return here if she does Hebich has advised us to send her off at once. Every thing is here as usual. I dream that you speak freely and I hope it will soon be the case. With love
 Yours J. Gundert

If any opportunity occur I will send you 4 books which have been sent from Bombay some time ago or do you wish them by banghy One is the Report of the Bombay auxiliary church missionary society for the year 1850. No 2.3.4 of the Bombay church missionary record.

From Tellicherry the have sent to Hebich 6 copies of ______________________ ________________ by favour Hebich has given me one copy. It is more for the use of Missy than for me, I wish only I could finish your ________________ ____________________ which is far more important for me; but we have no time to learn any more. I do not know how the time run so fast. 
Our 3 girls who are at C. are not at all better I think it will be just as well to take them back and try what we can here. Israel's mother is well again; but he has got himself the small pox now, he was afraid of it before hand. Elise is still of this world, but very weak. Paul the same, our patala Ama is some what better. The two little queens of Francis are much fater than our David, they are very fine, he is proud of them and carry them about: they have no appearance of teeth as yet.

Cpt Begbie has been very poorly and shall have to leave this if they go on the hills I shall send what you may wish by them write soon as they may have to go very soon. Que signifie le mot Tantalize? ce qu'en dit le dictionaire ne m'est pas clair pour la chose dont on a employ‚ ce mot B. a ‚crit trŠs en secret (donc garde le pour toi) que Mme Irion paraissait ˆtre dans un commancement de tantalize! C'est peut ˆtre un mot pris par B. lui mˆme dans le dictionaire Si je me souviens bien il emploie des mot choisi dans le dictionaire qui ne sont pas usit‚s dans le language Dans ce moment je re‡ois ta lettre du 17 pour la quelle oblig‚. Comment est Buhler envers Moeg? Je suis bien fach‚e pour ce dernir Je ne connais pas du tout le General! je ne l'ai jamais vu. Shaffert n'est plus c'est une perte! Les Lascelles sont d‚sapoint‚s en leurs fils; mais pauvres gens ils les ont ‚lev‚s pour ce monde j'‚tais afflig‚e lorsque j'‚tais sur les collines d'entendre Mme L en parler, fortune, argent, richesse, honeur, c'est l… tout ce qu'ils ont souhait‚s pour leurs enfans. Et … cette heure la mŠre sera assez aveugle pour croire que son fils est entr‚ dans une bonne position tendis qu'il ne fait qu'entrer l'‚glise Romaine. l'amour d'ˆtre quelque chose les fait devenir Ministres et ainsi ils se plongent de plus en plus dans les t‚nebres et l'erreur. Dieu veuille preserver le pŠre et la mŠre, leur manque de droiture les conduirait bien vite … Rome.

Thanks for your correction Hebich will perhaps write to you Nehemia tells me that he is better and even well this morning.

Now Good day, love to the dear Buhres, kisses to Eddy,
 Yours afftly J. Gundert

<mein kl Sprüchwörterbuch durchschossen ________ von Fr>*1
