Revd. H. Gundert, Ootacamund, Kaity, pp

<8>* Chiracal 21 March <51>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa

In deed letters are a long time in the way, yours of the 14 was brought to me yesterday by Mr Hebich who came rather late. I knew well Nannely death was on the 5th I began my letter on that day and finished it on Frederic's birthday. Many thanks for your news I am glad to hear you feel your chest more free, and that Feddy is going on well. Yesterday <Thursday 20.>* was a sad day. As the people had met for prayer were kneeling down Hebich with some others were called out by the Vandy man, to take out Maria Acha from the tank, at first Hebich thought there was still live but having used rubbing, warmbath, brandy all was in vain, at 11 0'clock she was still walking about looking as it were for a fit opportunity to go to the well, wether she has fallen in the tank unwillingly or purposely we do not know, but for many days she had said she would destroye her self being weared of her life. Thank God that Hebich was here to help. After a visitation from some people of the Catcherry she was taken to Cann. visited by the dresser then she has been birried about 9 O' on the evening Such a dreadful death has made Marie and meself rather nervous. May God use it for the use and profit of our other women. As I was speaking with pour Temah she showed me the tank and said there I shall die too, though she is very bad I have still hope the Lord will have the victory over her. We have to pray much for her, her soul must be saved. There is also our pour Uniama, who is troubled and wishes not for a better death than the one of Maria. She is groing worse and worse since the story there was in Joseph's house. O may we have love and compassion for these poor creatures so driven about by the devil; what a wretched life is the one of those who will not obey the Lord but will follow their evil desires and lusts in remaining remaining amongst christians.

Paul sends you kisses, he is well only full of prickly heat, he has no more his red cheeks, nither has David got them any more; for it is very hot, it looks as if it would rain for many days already; but nothing come to us, at Calicut there was some rain one say! Hebich will I suppose soon write to you he was very happy yesterday morning, had some hopes to have time to come back to us today to talk with Temah.

Kind remembrance to sister Irion and all the dear friends in your house. Kisses to my cheri Freddy, Paul sends him Salams.

Miss I hope gives you more news than I know how to do. I have written to Mrs Chombala Muller about the little Rachel daughter of Timotheus who is very poorly being sick after her mother I hope that she will take her for some time Adieu with love
 Yours J. Gundert

