Revd H. Gundert, Ootacamund, Kaity, paid

<13>* Chiracal 3d April 51
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa.

Monday Miss Kegle brought me yours of the 27th for which accept my thanks. I am glad to have such good news about F. and happy to hear you have made him Gautsches. I hopes he rides his my white horse courageously. I would like to see him; but he will be astonished when he see what a large cake and what a immense pot of titipu I will send him. But dear papa plenty news of the child does not satisfy me, what are you doing yourself? this espacialy I am anxious to hear! Mrs I<rion>* writes to Marie that Natha is very willing indeed; but terribly forgetful. Thank her for her kind note, I shall answer it soon I hope!

We have began the business of the roofs. It is to us a great relief to have made agreement with one who has to care how they work, we have no trouble only the dust fleieng every where. No rain as yet, our drinking water is from Jacob's well, ours is too dirty.

Every thing goes here as usual, no one sick, Martha well again. 
Mrs Begbee has quickly sent for the old J the cook, but hearing he was with us and that Hebich would not let him go to her she said to him I am sorry; but what to do. would not Mrs Gundert let my girl Louise comme to be my Ayah? Jacob said I do not know; but I fear she will not! And wright he was she shall not go. It seams they will settle here for their remaining life, I hope they may recieve good of their daughter Mrs Francis.

Paul got up to day very cross, nothing whatever could please him, so having thrown away his bread, I said well now bring the __________ than he said in laughing ______________ and took it up very graciously, after ward he said the ___________ is for baba __________________ One day he was naughty Elisa said papa will come to which he quickly replied ________________ Etti _____________, he still likes the tehabuck more then any other play things. 
David is growing nicely he sits nearly alone, laughs plenty chiefly when he sees his bottle at 5 o'clock. I can never forget it; for Wau commes and say Ama A bokel tea; if I say you do not want now he says baba ___________ Vau _________________ even in the middle of the day he wants a bokel tea, he wants to ride the horse which sans compliment throws him dow; but he seams to forget every thing on the moment. Feddy will be astonished that his brother can read whole pages, he bigins at the top and goes on in smattering words just as if he was reading. {I Vau send to papa a kiss and to my dear Freddy come to see me. I love you and pay four you, when my brother come back I will give him all my play things and be very kind to him. Salam _____________________} Fire has been again at Cannanore yesterday 500 of the seapoies or drammers houses have been destroyed.

 Now farewell Ys aff
 J. Gundert

On Saturday already 140* had burnt behind the Temple's house a child had been found in the ashes

One morning very early Vau came full of Joy saying apa apa! I said what is papa coming! no I go to Apa here is my Vadi! he hand found the black stick which had been lost for a long time, the hapiness to have it again made him to think he was to find you too!


 <4 Apr 51>*1

I just recieve two of yours 31. and 1 April for which many thanks. by this time you will have recieved the liste of the people of C. and this place, the one of Anjercandy will I hope soon follow. Searl who has returned last monday has promised to do his best about it. You will know also what Hebich has done with the papers you speak. The Rajah to whom Jacob has taken the book you spoke of has been very much pleased and sends you his Salams and thanks, he admires it! The parcel of Elisabeth has reached us just now and she shall write soon. I suppose Mrs L has gone by sea for that parcel has been sent by post from Calicut.

I am glad you have opportunity of seing Groves, give him my love and try to come cloth with him. I am glad you are so near dear Mr Morike give him my special regards and love, than to all, is Metz at home too.

We are much greeved to hear dear Mogling is not well. My thanks to him for the "bonbons" he so kindly bistows on my son. Now I must go to sleep to get up early to go to Can. Why do you think I have trouble though some time the women are bad I am not troubled and I am happy in the Lord which the best remedy to all.

