Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

14 Koterg. 26 June 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

First then a question of some importance, which you will also consider before the Lord. Stanger writes to Möglg that the Wardlaw's troubled him very much to marry. They had to leave Bellary, so there is no wife there to look after the women and children. He promised nothing, but asks: What sort of person is Miss Kegel, is she inclined to marry? Can she do so also beyond your Mission? What her Character, disposition? How old? does she speak and write English well? etc. To these questions I wrote an answer according to my impressions, and Mglg will communicate all to him. He thinks St. would do best to write to her directly: and then it is referred to the Committee, who may send an answer within 3 months. If then we get an addition it would just come in time. You will show this to Heb. but to none else, till St. does take the next step. I am glad for her sake, that she at all events receives once a request and I think she would be a good wife to him. 
As for your faults, the worst - indeed the most intolerable - is about the word "appetite." Also soup is French and therefore no soop - I have forgiven your negligence or rather scrupulousness about letters, and hope you will now know my mind. - I shall send my report (the first draft of it) to Hebich that he may see what I have written. Also something about the girlschool. Has Teman left her 2 children with you? I hope the new girl does better now than at Tahe. - But there is not much hope with that sort of people, as they come and go according to their sudden fancies. - Wonderful! a letter from Fritz after long silence. He is offended that Hebich accused him of having charit‚ … la mode - as he says, probably because he does not force people to leave the Church, nor make so much of mere confession. I answered him, it is probably because of his tender wish that our Malab. district conference should intercede for the Oberlanders. No news! - Has Mr Heb. an irruption? Who has broken into his compound? -

Today Buhler left after less than 2 days stay. He was more cheerful than usual, happy that his Committee work is done. My stick (from Weigle) which Fred. lost, a Badager found and brought to Buhler - who kept it for me; but alas when the Church people made their picnic and 40 or more came unannounced to Kaety to spend the day there, they passed thro' all rooms, and the stick disappeared again. It is thought to be now on Fernhill! - Mrs Irion will probably be detained longer on the hills than she thought at first. But I do not know exactly what her complaint is. She was at first very dejected by what the Dr told her, but is now getting more courage. - The poor old General! On Sunday he came and heard Mör's prayers, Buhrer's sermon: but it seems he put on some damp drawers or trowsers and slept in them some hours, awoke with pain all over, had a violent fever and lost his consciousness for a considerable time. They have now shaved his head and this day he is considered a little better, as the fever has left him - after all hope of his recovery had been given up already - still it is doubtful if he will recover strength. I was much interested in him, because he is a man so amiable in many points, and yet without knowledge of sin and grace. His son who has made a beginning of Christianity was very nice when I visited him to day for the purpose of enquiry. The Genl likes them to pray at his bed, but can not as yet be addressed, as speaking is still an effort to him. - Now farewell. May you be happy in school and with the children. I trust the Lord will keep them so that you have not too much care about them and many comforts by their cheerful company. I trust also that David is well again and getting on with his legs and teeth. Freddy has vomited this morning after drinking too much water. A moment afterwards he sat at table drank his milk, ate appambread etc as if nothing whatever had happened. This evening at 7 he "maunzed" (qu'est ce que cela) because he was sleepy - so one quickly gave him his milk and then he mounted his bed and fell asleep in a moment, I am sure he will sleep on 10-11 hours without any difficulty. He is indeed very nice - so much so that you will have difficulty to recognize his former temper, if the Lord graciously keep him as at present. Peace with you all!
 Yours HG.

