Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

21 Kaity 28 April 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Saturday evening I got yours of the 23d on my walk. So that was also one of the quick kind. I am glad you had such good News of Aline. Muller also wrote to me these days that she seems to be happy. He added that if I had been there I might have healed Rachel of her homesickness by a dose of ____________. that Insp. had written to grant 36 Rs per year to Timothy's widow: and that the papers of Kies and Albr annoyed him. It was a very nice letter and I liked to get it. I hope they do not charge too much on Aline so quite in the beginning of her married life. - Feddy is glad to hear of the Cooly of shoes (_______ shoes?) and Mangoes: but he is not aware how long he will have to remain. Nath told him "till after the rain" so when he sees clouds he may say "after this has rained we go to Sispara". Sometimes he can also say __________________________________________________________ let us go - alluding to my having said he must get first red cheeks. But all this only to Nanni, to me he never talks of his desire to go. - It is not pleasant that the Ladie's Society do not come into a more appropriate way of correspondence with us, but it must be borne. Perhaps something can be done to remedy it when the Commission comes, but as these are Ladies I fear they are not to be restrained by common rules, but will always have their own byways. Still I am glad of what you have written as it seems to show that my long report about all the girls has at last been received. If you hear that it has, please tell me so.

Heb. has not yet sent to me the Committ. letter about the accounts. Nor have I written about his feast experiences to the Comm. for I had too much to write for Mglg. Perhaps I may do it next time. - It occurred to me that something might be done before the rainy season in front of my little room, to render it less damp. As there are some stones remaining near the bathroom of Hebich, let Cugnen put and ram them down into the way before the two little windows, where the water from the roof is falling down, that it may no more make holes into the ground but run off immediately. If he watches well the right spot, it will be sufficient to put them lengthways. - Your news of dear Joseph's wife made me sad, but it is the Lord's doing, how much better to suffer through his hand, than by the wiles of the Devil. - I wanted already several times to ask about Israel but always forgot. Arabella wrote first, that he was mad and now that he is well again. What is the matter? {- This is my Selam to Mama and Mamm and Aisa and Mimmy and Vau and Hebich and David and all Fr. G.} - On Saturday Mglg and Morike went to Kotirgherry, they saw Onslow's and Stoke's on the way in Cunnur - arrived late at Kot. when immediately there fell a heavy hail with an awful storm. Cockb. measured one hailstone and found it 5 inches in circumference, a story which was immediately bruited about in all directions. That same Saturday the Bishop inaugurated in a certain way the Chapel so as not to prevent us from using it which General Gibson has built at Kot. and very kindly expressed his hope to Buhrer that he would often preach in it. On Sunday Bishop had Mglg etc to dinner and was very attentive to them. Monday morning in returning Mglg's horse not only fell with him but made an entire "Purzelbaum", so that he afterwards lay on his back in the ditch and M. near him with the horses leg on his. Beside some pain in this he felt nothing whatever, so it served him rather as a gracious sign that the Lord was not as yet ready to take him away. He came to Cunnur on horseback with torn trowsers, and arrived just for the prayer at the Stokes, when they had a very happy hour. - I wonder if any of you remembered Heb's birthday which is this morning (29th) May the Lord preserve him yet many a year and use him for His own glory! This morning Collector Thomas paid us a visit, he is the same who was once judge at Calicut and visited you then. - I hope you have sent off the Cooly already but if not, then Mrs Ir's things may yet arrive.

I wish he may come soon, because here they say the Monsoon has already commenced, and when Mglg leaves (12 May) I shall go to Kotirgherry. Now farewell to all. Peace be with you
 yours HG

