28 Kotergh 4 Aug 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Though I wrote but yesterday I will quickly acknowledge your letter of the 30th which you see came rather quick for the Monsoon. Thanks for all what you send, tho' it is too much (I mean stockings) - Mrs B. uses now some of Freddy's stockings for her children. - I have written to Sarasin exactly what you said, but of course in my way, that is we want something extraordinary or rather nothing. I said how extraord. able to rejoice in the Lord and serve him without much appearance in the way appointed, closer if possible to Him than we are and able to be a refreshment to us - if not rather native help, which in some ways inferior to European gifts, may yet be more useful, in case there be thorough unity of purpose etc. Nothing personal, but just so much that they be not in a hurry to provide for us as hitherto. No promise "d'ˆtre aid‚e" because I am too proud for that. It looks like begging him to believe that I am no tyrannical master - and I dont see the necessity of that. Remember that this is the first letter since 3 years and not a word in excuse of his silence. Therefore I think it right to take up the matter where I left it and won't avoid the consequences. Mglg thinks we ought to have resisted in Basle when the offer was made to us. Never mind now! the Lord will bring good out of it, for after all it was done in simplicity and not to serve any ideas of our own. - I am sorry for dear Vau, but what can I say! he must also learn weakness and pain - or he would not be tolerable to any human being in a short time. May the Lord soon take this anxiety from you, and keep him and David from long or heavy illness if it be his holy will. - Lechler writes I ought to come and see him - not 100 miles distance. I am half inclined - but not in a hurry. If God give me a mind to accept it, it will serve as a trial for my return to Malabar. Fancy Robinson said something as if another station for European soldier's might be erected near Sispara, so as to overlook Malabar and come down when needful to keep the Maplas in order. Of course this only after the success of the first barracks now to be built near Cunnoor shall have been established. I thank Miss for her letter farewell
 Yours affly HGdt

yeards - yards - Gendry - gentry - disapoint - app. having mention - tioned 