Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<37>* Chiracal 23d June <51.>*
 <Monday>*
Dear pa

I will now give you a proof of the wilingness and radeness which your last letter has brought forth, Yesterday I have sent you some news, now Sunday evening I have just returned from Can. As we arrived in H's house all was quiet and Henry sitting before H's room. He got up and said master not well he sleeps, when Hebich heard we were there he said comme in, he than related us that he had got a cold. the iruption made him to try every kind of things to get rid of the icthing, so he had his hands and feet covered with bread dipped in cold water, after which he felt rather hot inside, he then thought it would be right to try a wet sheet, Henry made every things ready for the purpose, betwen himself the horsekeeper and Phillip they covered Hebich with the sheet wet with hot water as Hebich ment, being covered with all the blankets of the house he was not hot and felt very aneasy they advised him to pour some hot water upon him, after which execution they wrapped him in a dry sheet and made him to prispire those three men imployed to rub him with all their might. the horsekeeper was the best sais Hebich. After he had got worm he felt pein in his chest and could almost no more breath; by and by he felt a little better last night he slept tolarably but as his brackfast could not go down he went to sleep again, He did not feel any pain in preaching, it is true it was not so long as usual, he went in the chapel at 10 1/2 and left at half past 11 Oc. he could not bring down his dinnar but went to sleep instead of it, he got rather hot than; but a cup of tea brought again his tranpiration and he felt much better; When we first came in I was rather alamed for every time he drew his breath he complained as if he had much peine on my inquiry he said not so much peine but it helps me to complain so that is to say to breath loud. He hopes on Wednesday to go to Anjercandy as I told him he should take care of himself he said he was quiet accustumed to have such colds. Your last letter has pleased him much he said it was the nicest he saw. Ladies at <after> Church were speaking of two officers who died at Mysore of the Cholera one of them a Bittele if I remember well who many times has hindered his wife to come to Hebich when at Cannanore. On wednesday Mrs Cummin will come to stay some days with us. The Collector has ordered the Tarelda to make Mr Brown to send over the Tiers who have troubled the Christians, and for the future comanded that no one trouble them when they go to the Basar the Browns will probably not be pleased of this. - Simon had been flogged the other day in the Basar. So now there is hope of some rest, as regarding the Moplas Hebich has not heard any thing; but they are very angry and one of them cursed him as he passed by. Our children were attaked in going in this morning by the relations of the last new girl, the mother would have her back; but she did hide herself amongst the others arrived at Hebichs a pion was called before whom the girl said to her mother that she would not go with her but stay and die at Chiracal. So the mother went away. Paul is angry with Hebich he will not even look at him, he went so far as to show him the stick at which Heb rebuked him hard. to day at dinar though he knew H. was asleep he went on singing "is it death? All is well." this he sings most beautifully

David is better caughs only now and then. Paul is well only very selfwill, I am oblige to give him the whip

