Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

26 Kaity 15th May 51
 <Thursday>*
{Dear Mama

I want to write to you: Selam - Kiss - adieu - the last word I have learned from Mr Mögling. I go often to see the Coolycalen but he will not come he says always _______ perhaps tomollow he will say ________. Today Gnanamma has given me _________ to eat and I did play about the school of the Badaga boys The egg which she gave me made my stomach bad, therefore Nanni said, must make cake, so he got a bit of mavu from Mrs Irion and made me a sponge cake which was very good. I gave to all to eat
______________________________________________ - So I asked Gnanamma give me again eggs for cake, and he put the ________ into its place and got an egg and gave it me, this is the 5th. I have now got some ___________ on my cheek: and sleep often 2-3 hours at noon, besides the whole night. Isn't that a good boy. ______________________________
________________________________________________________Frederick Gdt} 
Many thanks for your letter of the 7th. I intended to go sooner to Kotirgh. than I shall be able - not only the Cooly has not as yet arrived, but I have also every difficulty in dispatching my things, and shall therefore write to Kotirgh to send me bearers etc from there: it may be that I go on Saturday, perhaps not before Monday - in that case I write to you again from this place God willing. - Don't care for blankets, I have enough. Mglg also gave me some of his warm things - and a pair of his black trowsers for Freddy, perhaps I shall get something made for him at Kotirgherry. As for stockings those I have will suffice. - Nannis money business I will settle at Kotirgh. It seems to me rather too much to pay 7 Rs per month, I did not know of the debt. - Are teeth ladies? because you say, D's tooth made her appearance. To my feeling they are something very masculine: making an irruption into bread and saussages etc - I thought for some time you would get some thing from David in return for your giving so much to him. But try by some regular slow application to get rid of it; perhaps some very fine sulphurpowder with a little ghee laid on during the night might do good. - plenty love to the 2 dear boys. Freddy is indeed now getting on well. his stomach is smaller and his legs get stronger, his face sometimes looks as if he was feverish - only because mine eyes never saw him with a healthy colour. But to me the most pleasing point is his composure, his ability to wait with some patience or to bear some opposition. There is indeed a new blessing in this change for which we ought to be thankful with all our heart. - They say that there is plenty of lace here, to be sold by Mrs Hodges and few purchasers. Mrs Ir. brought something and it will not go off. Mrs Caldwell from Tinnevelly brought an other supply - very dear - I hear and people seem not anxious to buy. I shall however read your letter and then act as I think best, send perhaps the letter with a noto but not the lace except she offers herself to make a trial with it.

On the 12th Mglg left, late in the evening, for he had still a sitting in the Committee - Mör. accompanied him - the journey began in a cross style - the Coolies refractory the horsekeeper with fever. the horse lost a shoe. So M. had to send it back next day to be shod and made a letter writing day of it. But Mör says he was cheerful and seemed to him a good deal better than when he came to the hills in March. Now he will be in Sispara. - The brethren are at this time at dinner with the Bishop. I regretted that I could not well accept it. If Mglg had been there, so that I could easily spend the night with him, I should have gone to it. Perhaps it is better I did not go on account of the temptation to talk and get excited. - This morning Winslow and his son in law Dulles were here, nice people they asked after some stories about Hebich, if he wears native dress etc sees ghosts and devils ........1 They had been at Connur to see Stokes and Onslow, the latter is nothing better. - 16th. I now hear that the dinner at the Bishop's was very fine, much beyond what they expected, I mean in point of conversation etc f.i. about the schoolquestion, the relative good and evil of Governmt schools without the Bible - at last the Bishop read 1 Thess. and dwelt chiefly upon preaching the Gospel with power - it was 1/2 past 10 when they left, all well satisfied with the evening they had spent. - Buhler received the same day letters from Bale f.i. from Ostertag to say that the Comm. is now glad to hear all about these quarrels, and that the Oberlaender will have a few categorical questions addressed to them, which they are expected to answer without much circumlocution - otherwise they are requested to leave. I hope the letter will have some effect at least, and that for some time we shall be at rest with all these troublesome and unfruitful transactions. But I hope you will know some news before this by a more direct way. Give my love to Hebich Miss Kegel etc - Plenty kisses to Vau and David! I hope they will have great joy when we meet, though at first they will seem much estranged - for it seems at times a very long period since we parted! Peace with you all!
 Yours HGdt

