Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<38>* Chiracal 26 June <51>*
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa.

On Tuesday Mrs West with her children came to us early in the morning. On my inquiry after him she said he would not come; but by and by he arrived riding. When I told him I was glad of his having come; he said God did put it im my heart as I was at brackfast so I have come! during the day he was nice before they left I told him he may speak to the children which he did in Tamul and he prayed too, he was rather nice in all what he said, his children are improved too, the boy whom she still calls baba is fond of drawing and gardening he shows great dilligence in the last, he went all over the compound admired the plants and noticed every tree, he was very thankful for some seed I gave him. he amused himself in reading a nice book. Mrs Young had sent four our Missis to read, the youngest Nany is a nice girl. The day was spent more agreably than I expected, though nothing striking in her she appears to be the same, she brought presents to our boys, picture books, sugar, jelly, a nice book to Missy and to me a shawl, to day wednesday as we were at dinar there came a parcel to Miss Kegel's adress the dear dear Sister it was a bell and a pen it looks like if it was gold, the bell shall be used for the school, but it is Miss K. he <?>* writes to her many fine wishes that the great work she is doing may prospere etc! This morning Mrs Cummin came to us to stay for some time of which I am very glad; she is nice and I hope we shall profit of <by> each others. She has asked for the newspapar which you mention I hope to have it tomorrow, as Hebich had it till now On monday Hebich had send me word that he was well, but to day Mrs Cummin tells us that he could not preach yesterday Dr White has told him he should not do it as his stomach is out of order, his tongue is very bad so he has some medecine to take, he has done wrong to try to cure the iruption he had. Cpt Young happened to be there as the Dr came who laughed heartely in relating that after having entered Hebich's bandy which had been sent to bring him he could no more come out and he asked the coach man which was the way to go out of it for his large stomach had no room to go through. Hebich was very merry and told the Dr that he should come to him and he would soon become a good man; this Dr seems pretty much to be like Your General a few failors only. So he does not want H. to make him good Miss will give you news of Paul who is still singing every kind of songs or rather making one of every thing David is nicely and begins to sleep better at night. We have a nice weather usually rain at night and sun in day time. As Hebich has just sent this I send it to you you may see how he is. Silas and Mika have come to see their children and wish to take the little ones for some time but we do not allow as Muller himself does not like it, he has sent another Girl a niece of Thimothious who died the mother is at Chumbala her name is _________ Muller sais that she is a bad girl therefore he could not keep her at Chombala.

I have just recieved yours of the 19th with the home news many thanks, they leave to day for Mang. You know that the Lady comity has not yet answered my letter of August written as you were at Mang they have still some what in their minds With love
 Yours aff J Gundert

