19 Kaety 21 April 1851
 <Eastermonday>*
My dear wife

Saturday evening Mglg brought yours of the 16th - that seems to have come in 3 days! What a Vau to tear my letter and say ________. I have told Feddy of the tower and all those stories about the ice. Miss K also seems to have written them to Mrs Irion and I used them for a letter to Samuel (Sirach.). As for the drop you shared with Miss K. I am sorry so little water came out of your ice, but perhaps ere this some rain will have fallen. - The cook ought to give up his coffee entirely during these hot weeks and drink Kriyat instead, I am sure he would feel the benefit - Tell him that with my Selam. - I hope Rachel is now more content after having seen her mother for some time. - When I had written so far I discovered that the former letter had been forgotten by a kind commissioner for 2 days, so I delayed sending it off or writing it to the end, until I should go to Ottac. which happened today 22d evening when I rode in on Metz's poney fetched your letter of the 19th and passed the evening with Möglg. Many thanks for this letter. I was glad Herm's birthday brought you some rain. Möglg thanks you for your passage. He has written a long apology for his objectionable doing as I begged him to do it once and then let matters go as they will be directed from above. Freddy is much pleased with the climate now. About a week ago he was singing ___________________________________________________ and went on with his hymn - but since that he has no more mentioned you by himself only laughs when I tell him of your letters. He was waiting to see me mount on horseback and showed great joy to see me ride. "I go see" ______________ ___________________________etc. You will now be just in packing If you have not yet sent off, any thing may be added to another coolyload which I want for Mr Rice here - you send it just to Ottacamund to Mr Mögling. It is a large box of arrowroot. You may buy it as you like and send me the account of all, packing etc included Mörike is glad that you are so happy he wishes of the coloured echantillon of flanel as much as is wanted for a coat and of the white as much as for 4 or 6 underjackets (worn on the skin) - I pity dear Vau and wish him a good dosis of patience. I think if he can bear a little soap washing with warm water it will do him good, but he must not be forced if it pains. Here there are no urumbus. - We had 2 baptisms on Easter, a servant from Mangalore Johanan, and a child of another servant. The man is very ignorant, but on the whole rather promising. - Did I tell you that the horsekeeper of Mglg who was so exceedingly pious, has turned out a great rogue M. had to dismiss him for cheating. So do not wait for him. Mrs Irion tells me that the bookbinder in Tellicherry (relation of Thaddai) has expressed his wish to get a ____________________ I do not know of course from whence he will get it There is nothing particular here. The Bishop <Dealtry>* it is said wishes to invite a large company of Missionaries of all denominations to a dinner or for an evening. If it come to pass I have rather a mind to be present at the party and hope it may turn out well. - Mrs B.<ühler>* spoke to me the other evening as if she rather doubted about the part she took in the conversation with Mrs Ward. The latter paid her another visit to learn to read German with her and did not like to enter into conversation with me (but in secret I may tell you she began a correspondence with Mglg on serious matters, wishing him never to mention it, and inviting him at the same time not to visit her about it as it shakes her nerfs - so you also be silent about it). Now may the Lord bless you with yours
 HG.

