Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<25>* Chiracal 15th May 51
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa

Today I scarly have any thing to say, besides thanking for your nice letter of the __1 If you are satisfied with the Lord's doing I have also much reason to be so and praise his holy name. I hope you are at Kotirgh. and are happy. I trust dear Freddy does not give too much trouble to dear Sophie in her present state it would not be right. Two days ago I have sent off your book by banghy, you have perhaps already recieved it as well as the box. thank also for your correction of two r. As for the Italienish gray hut you certainly know that it means un chapeau gris d'Italie such have the brethren there!

Dear Vau to day has had twice flogging first with the matchel <Besen>* and then with my hand after wich he was quite subdued and would play but with me for a while: It is truly nice when he has been punished that he does not siek Others as Etty did, when I made him a speach how necessary it is to give __________ <Schlag>* to naughty children he sighed deeply and said yes and that in future he would be a good boy. David soon if not already now will require the _________ <Besen>* too for indeed he becomes rather obstinate chiefly to get his milk at any time he fancys good, he likes very much to stand up resting on a chair or on his little tub still he is not so forward as the twines of Francis specialy the youngest - she crawls beautifully the whole room to get any thing when she sees any food or plates. David has not yet attempted so far though he stands well on his feet and hands trying to go forward but he falls again on his tamback with out having proceeded farther. he talks great deal Mama Mama. this he pronounces better than Vau how <who>* has still every word beginning with a vowel. still he goes on rapidly in speaking every kind of things, when my dear Etty return he will find him a real companion to converse and play though now he says Etty ___________ <nicht nöthig>*. On monday I paid a visit to the Youngs. She being not well could not come to the meeting. they expect Mrs Cummin toward the end of this month. Whe<n>* she be here we will leave them the charge of the prayer meeting and go every sunday to Cann instead of the monday. Every thing here is going on as usual. From Telli. they have asked for our big Elisa of which we are very glad, "Hebich says it is almost too good for me." She had told to Miss Elas I have no more hope to marry: no one will aske for me, and after I had told her the news from Tell. she said Elas it will be a mistake they do not mean me!

Well being very empty I must conclude. Do you find that Etty should have more worm clothes. I am troubled about that child if indeed he feels so cold as one say. though I know much exageration may be said and supposed Now farewel
 Yours J. Gundert

Dear papa do not mind that I have said I am trouble<d>* about Etty it is only because we had a bad night with heat and Meskeetoes and David does not like them at all

