Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<39>* Chiracal 27th June <51>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa

Friday as I may perhaps have no time tomorrow to write to you I will write now, I expect Mrs Young to spend the day then she will take back Mrs Cummin. The new girl who came from Chombala is the daughter of the eldest brother of Timothy he is not learning at Cho; but has a share with the Christians there in the boat. The girl had already been living with an hasband for about two years here at Can. but as she did not like him nor he her she left him on his order and returned at Chom. There she desired to be instructed, but as Muller thinks she is a bad girl he will not keep her. I have asked to Micha and Sylas what evil they know in her, they assured none beside desobedience. Marie wanted to put her amongst the women; but as I think it will be better for her to be with the girls she has consented she does not look beyond 14 or 15 yr. of age. We have read the newspaper you mentioned and having been much interested in it we have settle for the future to accept the kind offer of Cpt Y to look at them every time. Our Jacob will also be glad of this opportunity. The Patala Ama seems to be worse she has head ach and fever now and then, her chief complaint has always been to suffer in the fondement I thought it was a great heat which would pass by and by; but now she becomes very weak and goes pretty often to the garderobe. Yesterday Paul was here who says that he is a little better; but passes still blood every times he goes though it be only 2 or 3 times a day. Today I have at last paid my debt to dear Pauline W.

I had a letter from Aline. As I think it will cost more, I enclose it here. Jacob is going on preaching daily dilligently; but the people here are very angry and now and than speak very loud querrelling. Hebich is going on taking medecine and clearing his stomac, it does not appear that his taking his large doses of Colomel had kept it clean sufficiently. Let us always know when you here anything of Kaity; for from Tellicherry we do not know any thing. When Hebich was there I<rion>* did not mention any thing about her. Tell me also what you know of the Wgls are they going home Mrs C has heard some what about it, is he worse?

Saterday 28th I just here this evening that Irion will go on the hills nex week and has offerd to take a small parcel with him; there fore I will send you through him 2 pairs of stockings a flanel coat for Fredy with stock; Mrs I has been told that she must stay two years on the hills because of her sickness, so he will go to see her. As I do not like to give him too many things I will send the books mentioned by the Begbies who are going soon.

Your letter recieved this evening of the 24th gives me joy I hope the Lord will bring you back both in good health at least with the measure necessary to the work not according to our wishes or fancies; but as our Good Lord sees it fit four the properit‚ of the soul. I first thought to send you Aline's letter but it would cost more as I have from Miss and Arb She is now pretty well; though for some time she has sufferd from caugh and pain in her stomac, her man Timothious is also not well he has rhumatism, he works in the ground in Muller's compound. She wishes to praise God for all things and sends you much Salams. Joseph's <Jacobi>* wife seems to be near her end. Mrs Y could not spend the day but came early after dinar and we had a good time together. Her sister Cadosa had another dead born child. All the friends send you love. Hebich has preached yesterday night. He is well again. With love to all and from all
 I remain
 yours afftly J. Gundert

