Mrs Gundert, Mangalore, pd

6. <7>* Chiracal 1 Nov 51

My dear wife

It is Saturday evening and I feel as if I had done some work, because I for once superintended carpenter and Masons - though I feel in no way worse for it - indeed I had but little to say, and only to look and advise and - pay. Tomorrow it's 13 years that we landed first at Mangalore. What a long time! and still we are kept in the land of the living - still enabled to serve our Lord, we ought to be very happy and thankful.

A good part of the window business is done and the other part will perhaps be accomplished on Monday or Tuesday.

This evening Cugnen's mother brought the news from Anjerc. that 1/4 part of Timothy's roof was burnt by the negligence of Philippina. It is a wonder that the Vettuwer's ran so quickly to the spot as to be able to extinguish the fire. Obrien and Daniel were just at Anjerc. perhaps we shall hear more details tomorrow.

This morning Miss K sent her definitive demand to Josenhans, and I added to it my ideas about the way of filling up her place in the meanwhile (perhaps a 2d Christian Schoolmaster and Missy's service) - as for a successor I wrote the question ought to be deferred till after the interview of Josenh. with us. For such also had been the purport of Sarasin's letter to me. I hinted that February is the last month to which her journey with comfort to herself can be delayed. I said of course St. will come and fetch you: She could not endure such a thing perhaps he may come to meet me one or two stations before Bellary. But I think if St. comes to Belgaum the best would be, if he got leave before hand to come down so as to return with her to Bellary in January. I told you something of a repenting fit - I then assisted her to retrace her steps if such should be her settled determination but that seemed not to be her wish. She would rather have heard some praise of St. from me. That was the last conversation on the question of Yes or No, and the next morning brought a letter from him, with rather a nice enclosure to myself; this letter was answered before I was aware of and so I think the question is fully decided on her part. May the Lord now prove that He has also been in the business all along though often overlooked. I believe Miss K. is already more sober in her judgments than during the time of her scouting the idea of a man. I have no doubt that when married she will prove a real acquisition to the Mission that gets her.

Now also a petition. Please ask Mögling for Lassen's II Volume, and Hoch for as many Suddeutsche Warten, say from May 1851, as he can just get: also Basler Volksboten would be very welcome if to be had in such a honey season.

Dear David threatens to become just such a Kaesesserle as dear Nanele was. He no sooner sees it on the table than he asks for it with every possible voice noise and gesture. Everything else is but poor stuff in his eyes. I am happy that I can repeat he is very well. Feddy is very angry with prickly heat, - today he has secretly taken a plantain out of the Almeira which proves that we do not always lock the doors when it is proper. He rides very well on the pony I fear the 2 will quarrel about its possession after dear Paul's return.

Now I hope soon to have done with letter writing to your Honor and that you may have still some happy days at Mangalore and a good run down the coast, refreshing also to our dear ood oy is the wish of
 Yours HG.

2 Nov. This will be taken to Cann. by our people. I will go there for the evening service God willing

