<44>* Chiracal 12th July 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear papa

I have to acknowledge two letters of yours, one of 4th which came thursday evening the last of the 8th recieved now saturday morning as I was shutting up the eyes of our dear patala Ama she has gone home quiet, and longing for the delivrance of her suffrings, which have been pretty long and strong by time though she always spoke very little of them, and when asked answered little pain I have.

The Lord has been very gracious to us, he has kept us wanderfully from sickness during your absence, he has ashamed my little faith. At Tellicherry they are much trouble with fever they do not say what kind of fever; but it must be bad and perhaps catching; for they write to Marie that Poor Varid <Weber>* our Varid <Weber>* who returned from Mangalore with a wife has died from fever he was in such a state no one could approache him nor could speak with him. Muller was anxious to see him a little quieter to be able to speak to his soul, but he was carried off unprepared it seems, some other they say are laiing with fever and sickness. You will have heard that some weeks ago, Christina in the hospital with Aron left this world too; but not from the fever which rages at present. You will have heard by this time that dear Hebich is well, and anxious to write to you; but no time. I will take this letter with me tomorrow and hear what he says about Addis! 
Well we shall see what the dream is bringing forth, meanwhile be sure I keep perfect silence Irion will be there I suppose before you recieve this. We are greeved to hear about Sister Irion I am glad he has gone there, Mrs Buhler who wrote yesterday to Marie said that she had been some what better these last days; but they do not know what to make of her complaint it may be very serious.

At Tahe the sickness on her declin, the two boys are nearly well. The baby Justine of Joseph has been brought here, his mother takes care of her she has a good nurse, and is very well. Our Claudia is still very dead and selfrightious; I hope the Lord is working in Ester; she is nice, her prayers very fine; she is troubled by doubts about regarding the truth of the scriptures

The three last new big girls are going on pretty well specially Rasmi she has a fine temper always smiling, she also does not seem to know much evil At first Marie declared she was idiot; but not at all, she is simple I like her well may the Lord work in her I take her now and then to keep a little David. The Matichi from Chomba whom we call Aline is not so nice, she requires a ferm hand over her, desobedience, lies, are commen to her, the other is a piece of flesh, very stupide, her mother has tried again to take her away; but she will not go Marie has just read me her report of the school home! Mr. H. has written you yesterday so I have nothing to say for him Missy's letter has been forgotten at Chiracal therefore no news of our boys except they are well
 yours afftly J. Gundert

