Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

8 Kaity 22 March 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

My last I sent from Ottacamd where I had visited Mogling for the 1st time on the 19th. I was there for 6 hours without speaking to M, because his work lasts just so long. I am very sorry he thus overworks himself, for he himself confesses that it is a little too much. But tho' he should like to interrupt the Committee for about an hour at noon, he can not do it, because otherwise Rice could not return in time. I dined with Sanderson and Mglg afterwds S. went to the Groves' where I did not like to go so soon. M. accompanied me round the lake to the end of Ottac. On our way we met Bishop <Dealtry>*, Kinloch, etc Fennell also, who stood for a while and talked very friendly - It was now night, and I did run back the rest of the way to Kaity, where a precious nightrest rewarded my exertions. - I did not send to you Marie's letter, as you transmitted it to me open, so I concluded that you have read it. - Early the 20th Mrs Irion with Chr. went off to Cotirgherry perhaps She returns this evening. Her Carl was not quite well yesterday, he vomited 3 times, but I think the medecine I gave him, has now quite stopped it and he is happy this morning. Fred. has now already on 2 evenings gone out on horseback, and he begins to like it. Now and then he asks _______ and Nanni must carry him. - He has a good appetite, awoke this morning with "Tea" and _________________________, before sunrise. His sleep is good. He rarely has more than 2-3 stools a day. He likes "goose bellies" more and more, and requires to be watched herein. - There is nothing particular going on here. The 2 brethren are still out in the district, Metz in the Khundas, Mör in Todanad and Cotirgherry. - I think the people here are much more accessible than ours. It is really astonishing, how in every thing they recognize a superiority even in such homely addresses, as those of Metz I do not think there is one who really girds himself to defend false Gods and old practices. - I wonder what news I shall soon hear from you, is your throat well again? and Vau likes he his steamer still? Has there been any rain since I left? Here they have no well, the water runs freely down the mountains. - It is beginning to be hot even here. I now undertake again my early walks, for which at first I felt little inclination. You ought to be here once with me, I think I should soon oblige you to talk walks with me, nill ye will ye. It is truly a lovely climate. I wish I had more common trowsers with me, for I put them on in preference to what is black and woollen. However I can go on sufficiently well with what I have. I seek in Oot. for some jam or jelly, for Fred continually demands __________________ ____________. J. Gr<oves>* is said to have got enough money at Hyderabad to pay his (still owing) passage out. His sown is to be sugaragent there, but the father will soon return to the hills. - I wonder if Jacob <Rama>* has forgotten to make out the number of our people. Remind him of it with our Selam.

Now farewell. Grace be with you
 Yours HG
Selam also to Miss Kegel Missy etc

