Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

45 Kot. 21 Sept 51
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

This time I have 2 letters <(mistake! only one of the 15th)> of yours to answer: a good conclusion of our regular correspondence. I am glad to hear that Paul is so much better. You need not think about the accounts, I have managed so as to keep a sum in hand for building the tiled roofs. (I have taken all the private money granted to us you know that makes 390 Rs for us). - I am glad the weather is so dry, so I shall have less trouble with the Coolies. I leave one box with Moerike. - What you say about Schnarre (son of the German Missionary who came out with Rhenius) that the W's think him unfaithful in their agency has grieved me. They ought to ask a strict account from him. I do not think him to be a good agent, but have not as yet heard anything affecting his fair dealing.

I am sorry Heb. spoke so much agst races: our father would once a year either go himself or send somebody with us boys to see similar exhibitions, and if I had the opportunity I would think it perfectly fair, to let children of a certain age see them also in this country. I think it as nice as when so called Christian boys spend their hours in idleness or in foolish talking - of course one must always wish people were fonder of spiritual exercises and races for a heavenly crown, but I would make a great distinction between the things, which I would not choose for myself, and those which I make sinful to others. The latter leads into many mistakes, though not apparent at first, I mean, that those hearers, who are loudest in condemning the shows of the world, suppose themselves already half Hebichs, because he has struck the same chord, though for all that their heart is far from making Jesus their all in all.

I hear Fennel preached the other day in a similar way, speaking of false prophets he mentioned from the pulpit as instances of them: Unitarians Grovites Plymouthians Rom. Catholics etc. I regret this on many accounts, chiefly because unconverted people when hearing it may bless themselves for their goodness because they have never belonged to any sect. - Mrs Ward who told me this a day or 2 ago, has since begged me not to speak of it as a fact coming from her, because she has not herself heard the sermon. I mention this as a nice instance of her present tenderness in all she does. People speak often against Fennell, because although faithful to them he occasionally has an awkward way of bringing things forward but on the whole he certainly belongs to the faithful servants.

21st Now I must tell you of my movements. Hodges invited me first, so I had already accepted when Mrs Fitzg havg just received a letter from you invited me very strongly. So I determined to send Fred. to her tomorrow (22d) and as I am going first to Kaity, I shall see her first on Tuesday (23d) when I shall get also my pony bought by them as appears by their letter, for 60 Rupees, and very strong. I am glad of getting again a beast of my own, otherwise I should have used Mör's pony, offered to me till Edawanna. But it is much nicer to have one's own. Mrs Cockb. has written to you a kind letter, which I shall bring, the paper is thick, the contents little. She gave me some jelly for you! Cockb read today the service in the absence of Bühr. whom I shall no more see. Now farewell for some time! I shall not be able to write from Ott. At least am afraid I shall not, having very little time, and besides the arrangement about the horse etc for the journey, to see Mr J Walker, etc besides the person with whom to lodge. I shall start on Wednesday D.V. for Avalanche. Your notice that the month was dry gives me the more courage for undertaking it.

Just now Heb. sends me 82 Rs more - he will understand from the account, that this does all go on the past year! I am very much pleased with the news of the Church, and hope that not only those newly admitted to the Lord's supper, but also those joined to the congregation by baptism will have a rich measure of blessings heavenly and spiritual. Mrs Bühr is adding one little thing after the other for my and Fred's use - rather too much. The bidding farewell is always a trouble - they - parents and children - had become very affectionate May the Lord bless them.

Now greet all
 Yours affly HG

Please give Heb best thanks for his letter and money

