Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

32 Kotergh 14 Aug 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday Papa was 68 years old! I could thank God for so much and hope He will yet spare him for a time to his children and grandchildren. Hebich's summerset (culbute!) was also more serious than it looks when we write about it. It is indeed a preservation. - As for Esther's doubts I also think that the Devil has still a hold on her, otherwise she would sooner hold fast the truth - there may be much progress, and still nothing decided if she do not long for delivrance from the old yoke with her whole heart. The _____'s came just in time. Yesterday Nath. told me, the old ______ was spent, I tried to get one from Mrs B. she has few, they did not seem to fit - however before nightfall your letter brought the needful supply. - Along with your letter Sophie got one from her father - not many news of general interest. Hochst. praises our King and says it is only because of his heart for the people that he is just now disliked by all monarchs, whilst he can not satisfy the turbulent Republicans. If it was not for this hatred, Bavaria would long ago have built the railroad from Augsburg to Ulm, and thus Hochst. would get his daughter's Indian letters a day earlier. But our Stuttg. railroad is in the way of being joined to the Badish. So the next time we would have easier travelling from Stuttg to Bale. Shall we soon go again? Probably you have as little wish as I. - I have written to Miss Kegel she wished to have "my view and advise about her sentiments concerning that question" and then gave her sentiments, in which there was nothing of any importance as an obstacle to marriage. I advised her not to decide in a hurry, but ask for a little delay before she answers. This may be a little more troublesome, but in the end more satisfactory. Buhrers say - marry by all means. So if she asks you may tell that from Sophie. - Fred. is very happy. Nanny has made him a _____ to be carried about, this must also go _________, as well as every thing of the least value. - Buhrer has bought the horse of Metz and so we can move more than before. - What you say of Haldwell did not surprize me, as my sayings about Mrs C.<ockburn>* did surprize you. I did think that but a minority of those called religious know the secret of a new heart: and I doubt much if Mrs C. is at all in the way for it. There is such an absence of humility about her, such a pretence of religious interest - when it suits her purpose that I am shocked whenever I am to consider her as a sister. It will not do. If the Lord does not bring her low, there is more hope of the giddy creatures who delight in balls and theatres and dresses, than in this staid and regular Lady. As for me I should like a theatrical representation just as well, as her religious conversations, for I think the amount of truth and life in both about the same.

Nath seems to go on well in his mind. I think he is also more cheerful than at first. As you will have heard some thing from Hebich (if I did not write it myself to you in 31) I will not repeat that about Mrs Irion. It is hard for them to have such an unwilling Dr <Johnston>*, but God can make their way clear before them. Bühr. will go over the next week, when probably we shall also hear about the long expected birth, for which the Dr has already twice fixed the date in vain. - I hope you are continuing well in the midst of your cares about Vau, David - Martha Sneham etc May the Lord bring good out of all these troubles! He will keep your mind at rest and enable you to bear quietly what is to be laid on you still more! Tell Jacob etc I thank them for their remembrance. May Grace and Peace be with you all  Yours HGdt

Hochst. writes another bride is to come with Hoch's. - For whom? I suppose for that silent Br Würth.

