Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

7 Ottac. 19 March 51
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

I write this on visit at Möglgs after having received 3 letters from you, what a debt to bear, and yet I cannot promise now to acquit myself at once, for I have also immediately answered this letter of Papa and sent it off overland (and also to Jette) hence I have but little time left for you. Now with God's grace I feel very well indeed and see it is His will that I believe firmly that I shall in due time be cured and rendered to my work. Don't you give way to unbelief. Fred sleeps very well. Only once in 8 nights has he awaked before daylight. He plays nicely (makes dinner) with Christian. Only hope plenty and you will get plenty. Assuredly you will find that every thing has gone well and goes well, only you make the going a little less smooth by your cares. But may God glorify himself in His own way. The letter of our Papa have read to you, and then give this and the latter to Hebich, to send to me once in a parcel of letters (which also only costs 2 Annas, just as much as a double letter) I think of communicating them to Weigle. I congratulate Obrien to his son (during his absence, n'est ce pas?) "Arabella and Adam sont bien" Who then is Adam? - It is not very cold now, Nath. seems not to feel it. - Buhrer was here the other day came on a horse of Capt Hoare, and when he sent it back on the way it spit blood and died. Hoare has comforted Mrs Buhrer very nicely, but he B. was not a little shocked when the news came to him. - On Monday I saw Mrs L.<ascelles>* (and Mrs Ward her daughter) at their house, I walked both ways, without any fatigue, and was pleased with her. She does at Honore what she can for the Lord and is very sensible of her former back slidings and thankful to the Lord for having healed them. - You must nomore send to me any feuilles from Basle, but at once (after Marie has read) to Tell. These I shall now send to Calicut. - I am glad that all goes so well at Talip. Today he will have returned give him my love. - As for Fred's clothes Mrs I. herself does not mean that he wants any now, but that he would want them if he should stay over the whole rainy season. As for the present he has all he wants. I am thankful Dav's vaccination gives you no uneasiness. Is your hoarseness gone?

But my time is over. I recommend you to the Lord May He keep and guide you and ours! Love to all
 Yours HG

