Mrs Gundert, Cavay

 Chir. 22 Oct 51
My dear wife

When I returned from the river with the prayer that the Lord may take care of you and the dear children, I found all at home very quiet, played a little piano with David (a very fine instrument for him, to be played with hands not fingers) - soon after he went to sleep without any difficulty. Feddy was nice too - I went to the prayer and made a little speech, to beseech them all to be not mice and rats, but children etc promised to be as good a cat as I could manage with the help of God, and begged them now to give joy to our Lord by watching over themselves and over one another with prayer. Then because Heb and Jacob and you have left, I gave new orders about mentioning all matters as quarrels etc at once to Miss Kegel (if in the school) or to Joseph (if in the compd) or directly to me. There seemed to be a willing spirit. - The night is cloudy and I hope you have just cool enough to be able to sleep and no rain or wind to incommode you. J'avais quelque inqui‚tude … cause du jeune gar‡on des B<ührer>* et je te prie engage les … faire bon usage des moyens qu'ils ont … leur service, pour faire vomir s'il faut encore - sans d‚lai - et le tenir hors du vent et toujours un peu transpirant par des doses minutieux des r‚mŠdes qu'ils ont. What does my dear Paul say? Missy should have very much liked to come after him, but what could she do. Tolen took the bandy to Cann and Missy could not run so fast as to reach you after you had once started. I hope Heb may see me for a moment, to take this letter to you at Cavay.
 Yours HG

At 2 this morning David awoke and searched for you, so I went and carried him about. He was quite pleased and after an hour he fell again asleep on the pillow of Louise Now at six he is still asleep

