6 Kotergh 2 June 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday morning I received yours of the 27th, after I had been left empty for 5 days, I should have grumbled, but what can I do, poor man, when today already I am rendered happy by another letter from you - you have beaten yourself, you show you can write plenty when you have a good season. Now pray, continue a good wife and write no more every 4th day. - I was really glad after 3 weeks of silence to hear from Mglg especially such good news. As for me it is all very well to talk of 12 months sojourning on the hills, but Mglg could indeed not report of great progress. I believe I am in a better way now, since I am here, and have begun again the sheet, I felt the effect instantly - it does me more good than any medecine. I don't think I used the syringe 3 times on the hills, but spent the Hallish pills in stead, and combine this still with the water. My mind is to come down after the Monsoon, and see what the Lord will do for me. I am quite sure that the stay alone does not do much, though it helps on the other remedies used: yet am I in no particular hurry and shall be obedient to the will of God as it may then appear.

You will then be glad to have Freddy again, for whom I shall try to get a new play made at Tellicherry, viz Bloekle, he builds towers and all sorts of things with them and likes so much to throw them down again: Mrs B. is surprized to see how well he amuses himself during the sleep of her two boys every noon. - You have a new girl, but I cannot make out her name. Is it Rugmini or what, let Missy write it in Malayalam. Mrs Cummin will be glad to be again in Cannanore for a while. I hope she is a joy and help to you all How is Capt Yg and is his chest now free? - I wrote these days to Capt Halliday and have my homeletters to prepare tomorrow, so I am rather in a hurry, with answering you but prefer it in order to show you how liberally I reward a readiness in you to scribble the little details of our children and other particulars of Cann. and Chiracal for my use. - I heard from Morike, that Mrs Bühl<er>* had been less well in consequence of that stupid Picnic of the Plymouth brethren in the little wood of Kaity. Bühler seems rather dissatisfied with his Committee work, and does not fare so smoothly with Rice as Mglg knew to manage. They hasten it on as well as they can, and after it is over Buhler may come over to this place for a visit. I will mention your thanks to Mrs Ostertg whether you write or not. If you send it to me it comes too late if after the 3d. - Buhrer read yesterday his first written sermon. Mrs Cockburn praised it afterwards very much from the description of her husbd and daughter. She had not come: formerly she had even loudly declared that B. could never preach in English. - Mrs Irion is said to be a little troubled about Carl on account of some diarrhoea that seems to cleave to him. No other news, but that I got 2 letters at once from Tellich since Mglg passed through
Love to you all
 Yours affly HGdt

As Nath said he could not do with 3 1/2 I gave him 4 also for May 
