Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

<11>* Kaity 29 March 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Last Thursday I think I wrote to you - then came Mr and Mrs Hodges also Mrs Hullock for a visit, of course I also went to see them, and got every possible expression of love and regard to send to you. Amongst other things Mrs H mentioned that J Groves is very ill and that perhaps they will sell Fernhill if they can (the Bishop perhaps will look at it) - Jessie is expected to come out (who went home for some thing like epileptic fits) - Mary is quite a chip of the old block, that is to say fond of horses and hugging dogs - the parents strictly Plymouthian, that is, never going to Church nor hearing any body but Mr Minchin. As Mögl wrote to me that he may perhaps sell my poney, I went part of the way to Ott. with them on their returning. I did not find Mögl. at home, therefore went at once to see old Schmid he had gone out with his wife, so I staid with Mrs Mitcheson who has a fine boy of about a year. She spoke with some anxiety of her husband, who is sick and writes only every 6th day - and she seems already to feel that these things may be meant in mercy for her. After sunset the Dr <Schmid>* and Lady returned from their visit. I liked the mother at once; she talked of Tinnevelly, the Enslin's etc. After some talk he accompanied me over to Mögl. who had returned from his boating excursion. Sanderson and Minchin had rowed him this evening. He looked better, but had a bad letter to answer before him - a Mr Hardy from Bangalore having sent all possible complaints against their Canar. translation to the Madr. Bible Soc. Committee I read the letter - and a very stupid one it is - and then wrote part of the answer, Möglg dictating till 10 o'clock. This was a great exception for generally he goes to bed about 7 1/2 PM and does not rise before his 12 hours are finished. So they assure me. There was also a letter from Pauline, stating that Gottfd had commenced his journey with Col Coffin to Belgaum Goa etc They had also a visit from Hiller, who was some what surprised to be invited by Weigles' to come whenever he likes to them, as he had not permitted Mglg to come and see them, after all he also said, as for the report that he is to leave the Mission (to become a cotton agent under Governmt) they ought not to vex themselves now, for he has delayed his final application in hope of better times. What that means, who knows! Mglg had also a letter from home. His father had been very ill but was better when he wrote and had begun to preach again. An aunt of his, who had been very hopeless, was wonderfully converted, so that his parents now write, that nothing henceforth shall appear to them hopeless. - In the morning I walked back (left the horse for sale) - plucked some berries for Frederick who likes them better, than something of sugar that Mglg sent. - He walks and runs now a great deal more, his hands and cheek have also that dark coloured leatherlike bursting appearance that Ir's children had when we came. His motions are much better. - As for me though I feel better, and take long walks morning and evening, I have nothing particular to report. I think I grow a little more diligent in writing (translating 1 Corinth.) I wish I could send you a houseful of the cool wind that now (after 8 o'clock) blows over the hilly chain bounding our valley.

This morning Mrs B. has gone to Ott. for some days to pay some visits she has been owing for a long time (Hodges Foulkes etc.) - We have had rain yesterday I wish you the same happiness. - Next Thursday (3 Apr) Mrs Lasc. intends to set out for Honore, so I shall try to see her once more. I suppose a letter from you is waiting for me, at Ottac. but perhaps tomorrow some body goes to the post and brings it. Now excuse my dry epistle and may the Lord give you of his best rain - such as will cool down Temen, and make fruitful such barren spots as Cugnicutti and the rest. May He glorify himself in you and all the dear Chiracal company. My love to Hebich Miss K. Missy, Vau, David, Jacob etc
 Yours HGdt

