Rv. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, pd

<33>* Chiracal 11th June 51
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of <Hebic has it I do not know the date> recieved the 10th it is indeed good news from Mangalore. We had heard of it in part; but much less than you have written. I hope the letter I join here is the one you want! The news you have seen in the papers are no stories There was fire at Can for the third time. And Mr Hebich' bills were in a great danger indeed. Mr Faunce was rather in distresse; happily that Hebich's name was spared from the white an<t>*s it was the only thing which remained; and as Hebich had a copy of the bills in his house so nothing was lost. The Rps we use at present are all dirty with the mud of the an<t>*s, no bags were to be found any more. The good news you give of yourself have rejoiced us much. Dear Freddy It will be a joy to see him again with a good health and such a good temper. I hear that Isabella is rather poorly having had now for a long time diarrhee, perhaps if she would try our place for some time it might do her good, shall I propose this to her? I hope God will give you wisdome not to speak to much when you visit the General and Cockburns. The sick people we had are better that is to say the old patala ama and the mother of Israel, Elise and Paul are the same still weak and poorly. Mrs Young has also not been very well lately, he is quite well again, Mrs Cummin seams to be very happy. we see each others rather seldome since the rain has began, and we have a real monsoon much wind and rain. last night the large tree near our cookroom _____________ has been rooted out, and many plantain plantes again. Your small room is not damp at all besides stones as you said we have made a shade of leaves before the wall so that it is well preserved, a chatis* of fire is also put dayly in your larger room to preserve your books and piano. Our Children have in it one gautshes as the ones outside can not be used so often because of the weather. 
Some of our girls have been a little unwell from the change of weather, fevrish and bowels loosness, Miriam and Sarah have still a bad cough for a long time it has begun. This darck and rainy weather makes me also nervous and with all my good will to do a little better than my usual scribbles. I find it hard what to say: happily David is better yesterday he was still hot; but I trust it is now over, when he drinks he usually bites me unmercifully and when I cry loud for pein he looks quite astonished. Dorcas, her sister Rosely, and Julia are at Can. in H. house as they were very poorly we have given them thŠre to try some medecines from a midwife which is said to be very clever with children, she has done good to Thimotious's child: I have very little hope for the recovry of the two youngest. We have not heard about Teman and her girls, just as I have written these words she standed at Our Gate with the Children, we will take the girls, but try to get rid of her. I wanted Missi to write to Etty for Vau, but he will not come near her nor hear a word he gives us a great deal of trouble with his running to the rain the whole day. Now farewell
 Yours aff J. Gunt

We have now bound the brave Paul with a roap by the foot for we could not keep him from the rain, he is now humble and promises Not to go again in the rain.

