Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

24 Kotergh. 25 Jul 51
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Thanks for your hasty letter of the 19th, which I received but this morning. I am very glad the sickness in Tahe is now at an end: and thankful for the trouble you take in writing to me also out of your time. 
So Carr has been out to see you. I am glad you are not forsaken by the dear people, but see now and then a white face. May the Lord give to his Brother full joy by the faith in His name!

Today Robinson came - full of Heb's letter, which had much refreshed him. I saw it on the Tappal when I fetched yours this morning. Rob. fully understands why Hub. comes to Palgh. viz. that he hopes Rob would ask for him or do something else to help on his wishes. I told Rob. plainly how matters stand and that the safest course for him, is to let the beginning be made with Heb's 2 Catechists and to let nothing cross this plan of the Comm. He is quite agreed will do all in his power. He even said some thing like: rather Catechists, if placed under Heb. than Hub without Hebich. But he is resolved not to write about it and will pass this over in the letter, when he answers to Hebich. His mind seems truly nice and so is his wife's who was very hearty with Mrs Buhr whilst I whispered my stories with him. 
Stanger wrote the 9th to Weigle, to ask also his opinion concerning his future. he had received Mögl's letter but intended now once more well to consider what he "shall or will do" -

Irion wrote that he is now with his wife caring for her and the children, all very glad that he came. Nath had got 4 letters from him, amongst them one from Jonathan which I was glad to see.

What I think about Hermann A. You know in 1845 I was against his going home, because I thought the risk greater than the advantage to be expected from it. But already after our journey home I changed my mind not in the general question, for I think the risk still very great, but on the particular case, for I became persuaded that H. would turn out a labourer as useful as any Missionary from Europe. What can now be said against his being a Miss[ionar]y like ourselves, I do not see. The Committee will have it so, and his brethren at Basle will find it all right, and if the brethren in the field will not recognize him as the equal f. i. of Dietz who is to come with him, one can hardly acquit them of some thing like a captious spirit. Or is there still a Caste question in it? There will be some management required on account of the other native converts. But if there be love and humility that is soon got over. Do you know, that Gr<einer>* in his letter to the Comm. said "of course keep Herm. like another Miss[ionar]y brother" yet in his heart he is much against it. Now I should have had nothing against it, if he had written all his reasons against an equal treatment of Herm. to the Comm. but he ought not to yield apparently in this question in order then to revenge himself for it by writing what he knew would injure M <Mögl.>* in the estimation of the Committee. 
Different views there will always be. I do not think I would agree with Br Hebich about the way of treating one like Herm. But I would give him credit for conscientious conviction in his way, and hope he would think of me not the worse for having a point in which I disagreed from him. What annoys me in these things is that want of charity which cannot bear a contradiction without making a fuss about it and stir up all around to look and judge. Buhrer goes of course with Greiner in his judgment of what is to be done: but this does not prevent him from being friendly with Mglg or with me. 
Of the new baptisms near Bettigh Mglg has on the whole good hopes, after having read Kies' report, so I am glad that the Brethren there have now their mind occupied with something better than our dissensions. Kullen writes pleased about Dietz, though he began to dispute with him, nearly the very moment of his arrival at Basle. Kull and Josenh learn Canarese with Herm. On the 3d July they were all to have been ordained.

Freddy all happy and wild occasionally. He went today to see the General's European and Cape Cattle, now sold by auction. A Parsee Framjee has offered 15,000 Rs for the house and gets it perhaps. The Dr Giraud who came here from Bombay is a Christian and nice, though still a little cautious in appearance. Now farewell
 Yours HGdt

Love to Heb the children Miss Kegel Miss etc
