5 Kaity 14 March 51
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday your letter of the 7th arrived - what a long way for the Tappal! Thanks for it! But dear Nanele left this world on the 5th not the 7th. This is Fred's birthday as you will know. He is much better now and plays plenty with Chr. All their talk of course is Malayalam and he hardly talks Engl even to me. - I hope the visit of Mrs Fitzgerald diverts you to say the least. It is better to think of your daily arrangements, kitchencares etc than occupy yourself too much with our persons. I trust God will soon put you quite at ease as concerns us and make you very happy in hope. - No pity for Nath. He had a very easy task in walking with the slow Coolies. I told him of Gideon's punishment, but Arab. seems to have written it also. You say the little Vau frightened would go out of prayers and said "Adam adi" what is Adam? Madam? - I hope you take care of your throat and do not force your self to teach. I think the hot season requires especial care in this respect - it is now 2 years that I felt my voice escaping from me by degrees, and it is painful to me in the very remembrance to think of my then exertions in preaching. In every similar case I should henceforth remonstrate most forcibly against such efforts. - I am getting stronger, as I can measure especially by my evening walks up the Kaity road. Ascending a hill costs me already much less labour, tho' of course I still walk slowly. Yesterday Foulkes and Dr Schmid visited us, I could whisper a long time without feeling tired. I do not consult a Dr - Nobody has even advised me to do so - and I dislike medecines since my bluepill cure. The only thing I do is, take something against constipation now and then, and use a wet sheet every morning out of bed. This is very refreshing. What do you say to my even taking Coffee and Curry! Of course I do it moderately: but it does not disagree with me here. Möglg came yesterday evening, he goes on pretty well with his work. - Foulkes gave me the 2 letters for Elizbth from Miss Tucker, also a book and pincushion (or properly pincard?) Let her try to answer without entering on Churchquestions (confirm - Catechism) and send the letter to me. The Bishop <Dealtry>* is at Connoor and is said to abide here 3 months. Fennell's have lost many children in Europe, I hear, and are it seems a little strange with Christians. Kinloch is said to be up here, also Harley came for a short visit, asked if there are bears and tigers on the road, and as a wag told him yes there are many he gave him some money to go before him and drive them out of the road - so his friends say. Schaffter is reported still not well and very nervous. Foulkes seemed very full of Hebich when he came up, so that his wife grew a little jealous or anxious. I think I liked him better yesterday than when he was down with us. The letter from our dear father and Samuel you may keep: I have noted all I wish to answer; put it after all into my drawers. Jacob may bring the Rigveda (__________) with Commentary to the Raja if he will take care of it that it be safely returned.

Now farewell to you all kiss to my Vau
 yours HG
