Rev. H. Gundert, Ottacamund, paid

<23>* Chiracal <7>* May 51
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa

Perhaps I should have sent you the german blanket; but you may supply to this by a country one as they are pretty thick. What I should have sent are some stockings for you I am sorry to have neglected these, perhaps one of the brethren there, may lend you two pairs? Perhaps 3 1/2 Rps per month might suffice to Nani ask him. Till now I gave work to Arabella by which she had enough to pay her little expenses but when I have no work any more I would then give her the half remaining from Nani. these 4 Rps two which I count for her food and one which I keep for their debt make 7 Rp per month. She has her food with the children for which I count 2 Rps She is quite satisfied with it and is pretty nice.

David's second tooth is making her appearance, The first was cut on Herrman's birthday, the irruption is still going on he has also made me partaker of it on the brests; for his lips are usually bleeding while he sucks; but he is a good fellow, eats plenty, laughs a good deal and likes to play with his brother who is at present very well, sleeps for some hours during the day. It is very pleasant and cool at night; the garden is green and fine, the plains at Cannanore are quite green and cows feeding upon it {Now Vau ill ________ to Apa and to Etty I send a kiss to Apa and Etty I love them much and thank for their catu.}

Cheroti the horsekeeper is doing his work well goes to prayer when he can; but has nothing as yet. Our cook is well now and send plenty salams as well as Jacob and all the other people. Our children are employed to clean all round the houses and they shall also bring the mud from the tank in the garden, this you will like I know. The rain has brought water sufficiently for our use! Nani will I think be glad to go to Kotergherry he does not like much Mrs I.<rion>*

It would be nice if the cooly was coming during M. is still there and you with him You might at one give the little basket to Mrs. Hodges and a small coat to Kistian which Freddy shall give him it has its addres Samuel's taste regarding sausagess is quite mine own We have often some on our table though not so good as at home Vau is also very found of them he calls them ______. We have apropos a good noumber of ________ since the rain has fallen. Rose is usually the announcer of them, at night I believe she has prevented some from coming in our rooms. Letters are rather long to comin I had one on saturday since not. but I hope Hebich may bring me one tomorrow. Have you any news from the upper country, the W. how are they. Yours of the 2d has just arrived, so it has been 6 days in the way, it will still be longer from Kotergherry.

Thimotious told Jacob that he had made the list; but had forgoten it at Anj. It is not J. fault but Searl and Thi. I send this to Ott still hoping it will not be so long on the road. Obrian was greeved at the conduct of Doncon and has done what he could to remouve the evil D. had done amongst the soldiers, as for Searl I do not know. The last stories of D. has been as ever his liengs and dissatisfied spirit. H. is now convinced that he has told plenty lies, he could not bear to be under Joseph
 Now farewell
 Yours J Gundert

