Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing.

15 Kotergherry 28 June 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

It would be very cruel - and stupid too - were I not to answer at once your 2 letters received in quick succession. What a lucky man I was in reproaching you with saying that I have too much of letter writing as you have too little. - I also think that wet sheets would cure Heb. but not in that adventurous way in which he tried. He seems not aware what a dangerous thing this complaint is, if driven away too suddenly. He must begin with a wet sheet well winded and rung out, and when he is hot, must first have water not too cold poured over him, the next day a little colder and so on. Twice a day at 12 o cl. and 5 o clock would be still better and have the sheet which is on his body be often changed and made clean again No doubt it would radically take it away: but then he must not go to Anjercandy etc However I come perhaps very late with these suggestions. - If you can send anything up here, I might suggest some pickles (Mango?), that Kerala Utpatti of Fritz, my little book of Malayal proverbs with white paper between each 2 leaves. Then you may send also those Reports from Bombay but they do not deserve being sent by Banghy. - I am glad Joseph's 2 children are a joy to him - What is tantalize? There was once a person Tantalus punished in Greek hell by being placed in water till the chin, but when he wanted to drink it retired from before his mouth. Over him hang branches covered with the finest fruits, but the moment he tried to seize them, they shrank back from before him. Hence the term tantalizing, that is, exercising one's patience in a peculiar way. It is not the name of any complaint. The Dr only meant that it might turn out a very long affair. - Bühr is not personally against Mglg, but he is so anxious to be well with Gr. that he is biassed in spite of his wish to be neutral. Because Gr Degg and Würth had written home as if Mglg was not sick, but quite able to take the school if he could bring himself to give up other work, Mglg felt obliged to write a Postscript, to say that the Dr is still opposed to his being at Mangalore and that he is thankful to get a successor and not merely a help for his work etc. Gr. called this "poison spit after his letter" so Buhr. of course tried to find a bitterness etc in Mögl's letters which is not in them. He has since written to both M and Gr and will probably hear more in their answers, than he is aware of at present - I saw that Galway of the 12th NI died from Cholera. His wife seemed once to have made a beginning. I have not heard of the other officer. The General's <Gibson>* illness here occupies me much. Poor man, he is still very dark. What a mercy if the Lord would still give him some time. He was yesterday so weak, that they ordered the coffin for him: but the Carpenter, a European thought it would be time enough to commence after his death. This morning he was remarkably better - the Dr thought it marvellous, he could speak and hear a little - but is still not out of danger. If it be God's will to raise him again for a little season I hope I may also have an opportunity of speaking to him. - Yesterday I had a fine day - it reminded me of prayer heard many years ago, when I for the first time found the right way of praying - and I was led to find out my short comings in this regard, chiefly since my illness. It seemed to me so easy to get well again only that I must set about it more earnestly, come more often and with greater confidence, and then I should see what can be got and what must be withheld from me still for reasons, known to himself only. So I have begun with a new mind, and resolved at the same time to be more strict with regard to food - you know one gets appetite up here, and I find that a full stomach does not help to my recovery, as little as it assists prayer. I know you and Hebich continue to pray for the same purpose, so I think it right to mention the little change, which may God establish by a rich measure of His Grace. - Gottlob was taken ill yesterday night with vomitings and purgings - they had a bad night of it: today I persuaded Sophie to have the wet sheet tried. Twice we put him in, and he is much better now, but it had pulled him down famously; he nearly reeled when trying to walk, and has been of a very sweet, subdued temper, being generally a most boisterous and wild fellow.

When I have again to send some letters, I will give to Hebich the draft of my little report for July 1851. Does he know that he has to make one? I suppose he will not be very ready for it this time! May the Lord soon restore him to his wonted health - and take also David's cough away. With love to you all
 Yours HG.

Müller does just now nothing with watches being occupied with the Church clock. Gottlob is well again 29th morning
