Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<58>* Chiracal <ca. 4 Sept 51>*
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa

I have to thank you for two letters Thank God for the good news you give of yourself!

You will not mind to have a short letter from me this time as you have a good deal to read by all what I sent as written papers. This whole paquet of letters came yesterday, there is still one adressed to our girls. You will perhaps have heard already that Hebich has been ordered by the Inspector to be at Mangalore in November to meet him there, so he has to make his account in october I live in the hope you will be in time to settle our own to deliver it to him.

I am sorry one of the Ati Macassor was injured. I have not told Marie that you have changed the price never mind it shall go as it can. FitzG had promised to have the jar pot amongst her own ones so that all would be safe: but now what to do!

Capt Young care riding this morning to let me know that he is much better. Hebich took a horse Vandy to go a part of the way to Anjercandy his pony has been trained for this purpose. Young and Carr will sell it and provide Heb. with a good one to ride. Apropos have you got one? or a horse how do intend to come down?

You would perhaps do well to leave there one of your boxes with the worm clothes and sheets, towells and other things you need not here. Capt and Mrs Y paid us a visit yesterday night. Mrs Halliday is expecting an adition in a week or two Mrs Cummin has gone to Chambala and Telli. for some days. Israel died yesterday. Barnabas and Gniana's child are thank God better. Till now we have been spared it is indeed a great merci. Checoti one day had convulsions and was rather poorly, he took an Emetic and oil he is now pretty well though very weak. David had no milk for 8 days he will soon forget it. Paul is not yet well; but I hope the Lord will soon restore him again, he does not go often in a day some time once or twice, but it is not well digested, and his head is often a little too hot; Hebich has just returned from Anjer. all is well there the people who are to be baptised very nice. the preaching settling querrelles has lasted 6 hours. Mrs Anderson at Madras who expected a baby has none at all it is a mistake.

Now Adieu Grace and peace
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert

Much love from H.
Barnabas sings the whole day and is very happy

4th September

