Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

21. Kotergh. 16 Jul 51
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Mrs Mörike paid a visit to Blumhardt, heard a powerful sermon "what you shall ask the father in my name, he will give unto you" in which he chiefly said what all the father had intended for us if we only would take the trouble to fetch it. He still heals many persons. The last was the cure of a students eyes after they had been nearly blinded - he can now continue his studies again and feels nothing in his eyes. - Hoffmann has again had a call from the King of Prussia, to be his preacher at Berlin; - should our King not enter upon his proposals for reforming the seminary at Tubingen, he thinks of accepting the appointment. He does not seem to feel quite at his post in Tüb. Believers think him too free in his teaching about the O. T. and to the world he is too pious. - Mrs Josenhans saw Mrs Mörike - she has some fear about her husband's journey, but as her husbd thinks it very necessary and has joy to undertake it, she hopes the Lord will help her over this time of separation.

So much I had written beforehand - now today I received 2 letters of yours with the overland. Many thanks for all. - So Elise and the Pattala sister have been taken out of this sinful world. The Lord be praised for having finished their course with joy: and do the same with us, when our time is come! - Poor Varid. Fr. Müller wrote concerning him, but nothing cheering. Ruth wept much when she heard her sister was a widow. She is the better of the 2 girls. Eve has spoken non sense, and has got the servant dismissed for it So we are in a pretty mess, 1-2 days Nanny must do the whole work. Perhaps tomorrow the old servant will be taken again: I had always recommended to pardon him.

Your accounts of the boys are very pleasing. You ought now and then to hear Feddy how he bawls out, when he hears the Tappal coming (the Post being the house next to ours) then he goes with Nanny and the other boys to ask for letters. And when he has got any he cries from a good distance Papa ___________ I told him of the sugarseed and he is glad. No objection to the Scotch Newspapers. I strongly advise the dear Fitzg's to come up to Koterg. where they have a very slight bit of the Monsoon, the real Monsoon here being the N. E. one in Oct-Dec. - Your fine passage is the last verse of Isaiah XL.

Dear Hebich has also written of which I was very glad. The letter came with the home letters so I had no time for answering his too. I am very glad he is well again. Halliday has also written - about the Bishop's visit. - Also Mrs Ward - confined of a girl the 14th has written to me a day or 2 before it, to beg pardon for having been offended with me about that conversation <11 April.>*. She was sorry to have spoken angrily about it to the person she next met, and heard that it was all bruited about, also at Kotergh. Now she finds that she was then in a rebellious spirit on account of the separation from husbd and children, and can already say it was good for her to have been afflicted. I wrote to her at once an answer about God's wish concerning her, and am glad that the Lord is bringing her round. If only He work, what a pleasure - how the difficulties we fancy to discover, are flying out of the way before Him. May we give Him all honour and rob no part for our ownselves!

What can that be that Esther is troubled by doubts regarding the truth of the scriptures? Has she heard any thing from Socinians or does it all come from within? In the first case one may help her by getting at the particulars: but of course the whole state of the heart will be the chief object. I am very glad that something deeper seems now to work in her. May God establish it for His own glory.

Mör. sends Selam. He went today rather far and feels something like a cold about him: but he is glad to have escaped for 1-2 weeks the rains of Kaity. 
No news as yet of Irion and Huber. Marie recht ordentlich - gesund, grows up to be a tall girl jumps plenty and is a gesheuter Knirps, never in want of an answer. Not very diligent but truly attached and generally amiable. When der Arge an sie kommt, she knows also how to be very unamiable. 
Please send Papa's letters to Mögling

Now farewell. the Lord be with you keep and strengthen you - and prepare our children for the time when he can raise them out of the sleep! May it soon come! But meanwhile let us be thankful for the benefits he showers down on them.
 Ever Yours HG.

