Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, Bearing

43 Kot 15 Sept 1851
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday at last I got yours of the 8th, and today Papa's letter and the account, which I therefore must undertake in much haste, for Heb. wants it for the 22d - and if letters are 6 days on the way he will still have to wait a little. I enclose Papa's which will give you and Heb pleasure. Have it read to you quickly and send it on to Möglg. Have you got back last month's letter? - But I must no more ask questions as you will not have to write to me any more to the hills, for D.V. I hope to begin next week my departure from the hills, I don't know which way - at all events by Calicut where you may meet me in process of time with a little letter on my road. I have written to Hodges if he advises me to go by Sispara, - if it be not thought advisable I will go round by Coimbatur. - I am sorry Paul does give you trouble just about this time but the Lord will do what is right and not lay too much on your back. Meanwhile I trust the Dr's medecine has been blessed to him, and when we arrive I trust, Vau will get some new stimulus of joy - and perhaps you too - or? The tidies for the General you must send to Mörike who knows all what he said about it. - Ernst's little sermon I do not send to you, as it can hardly interest you. That minister whose curate he is to be, is a very nice and able Christian, who I trust will give a good impression to Ernst. - Never mind your account business - the only thing I miss, is the list of the sums granted to us. I shall require more money for it may be I buy still a horse in this year and then I shall lay something aside for the tiled kitchenroofs. Tell that to Hebich. He owes me about 300 Rs more. - You have made many mistakes in your last, but I have no time of marking them now. I trust to have soon done with the account. All your sums are added up already and there is no foult to be found with them. So do not excuse your materials, they are given very fairly and I am determined not to bother myself about these trifles. - If I go by Sispara I shall visit Mrs Fitzg first and bring Gnanam's girl from Kaity along who seems a nice girl. Haldwell arrived the 13th, I saw him today - he asked after you and enquired into my case - I shall probably take some of his prescriptions with me. Now farewell. Love to you all
 Yours HG

