Mrs Gundert, <Rev. S. Hebich>1, Cannanore, Bearing
<to morrow I come not>*
 Palghat 27 Sept 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Today my King is 70 years old and Ernst will leave the University. But that's not very important to you. The 25th evening I left the Irions on his pony and came 8 miles where I met mine and found it not at all so agreeable as it looked at first, very much like a Tattoo - Came to Valiar and stopped in the Bangalow. Also this 2d horsekeeper does not answer, he seems never to have been beyond his native place nor to have served gentleman. We slept too long - awaking often before the time, but not at 3 - so I had a hot ride - but no matter, met a peon with note from Robinson, inclosing your letter, wondered about Mglg's proposal, and felt no wish for it. Indeed I do not think we are auth... to give her away on the very first proposal, in a way which would look very much like securing her 3000 Rs to the Mission. I would rather wait till she can have more ability of judging for herself, and I should besides like to hear what her relations think on the whole matter of marrying.

I came to Robinson about 9 o'clock. He told me that Huber wrote to him strongly against the plan of sending 2 Catechist's, that they would cost 30 Rs per month, all money thrown away, that the 2 Müllers are also on his side, that he will agitate with the Comm. that he has seen the house he <Rob.> wished to buy for the Mission and his judgmt about it and the repairs necessary for it, and that building quite new premises would still be better. Rob has answered none of his 3 letters but became perplexed: and therefore he has* not written to Heb. He would indeed prefer a Miss[ionar]y at once, and would rather give 1000 or 1500 Rs more for it. Also Frere, Horsky etc are against the plan of having Catechists on the other hand Huber...2 too personal a light with him, and he will say nothing to him, so rather wait, till Jos. comes. - He and Mrs R are indeed very nice. I leave this evening in Rob's bandy part of the way, and think to arrive about Friday under the guidance of our Lord. Love to all!
 Yours HG.

