Rev. H. Gundert, Palghat, paid
care of J. Robinson Esqr.

<62>* Chiracal 19th Sept 51
 <Friday>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of the 13th received yesterday along with this one of Moeg. I do not remember to have ever spoken with Hoch on this subject I do not know even the boy; but as I hear from Heb he is one of the Catechist; If you allow me to tell my mind on this subject I would say that if Miss is to get a Catechist much rather have her here near us where she can also get one if nothing else is prepare from the Lord for her. I do not answer Mg's letter please to do it We can also decide nothing without her relations. 
Miss Keg<el>* writes herself so you will know her mind and his desire; his letter to her is very nice. Wednesday Mrs Y. and Cummin spent the day here therefore I have again violated the law of the 3d day for writing Capt Y. could not come to fetch them the evening having to receive the steamer from Madras and to Embark the company to Calicut He is still poorly they send you love. It is true that Hebich is in better terms with Vedamutu, he has promised perfect obedience and to receive a good flogging whenever he is found in fault he or his wife. Yesterday as we were at diner March husband of Milka came to ask Heb to burry on of his children who died on the morning. Heb has granted his request, he has also promised to come to the preaching which he has't done for a long time. On sunday as the Chaplain was not there many people came to the preaching

Dr Magrath has also given 100 Rps for the Mission. Heb. has invited his friends Col. Prescot and Cpt Hutson for the great baptism 71 souls. Mrs Hallyday has a little girl.

Dear Paul is thank God better, still a large amback, but sleps well, stools better, eats much bread tosted, milk and water. David is well too 
Hagar had a bad breast. I have sent her in the hopital. Uineca's* hand is not yet well it will perhaps never come right in the wrist!

Thank God that your health is so improving. Would you not also pay a visit at Coimbatur your are so near? Adieu With love from all and to all  Yours aff
 J. Gundert

