Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

4. Kotergh. 27 May 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

At last the Coolyload has arrived this noon after abundant delay at Kaity, because the Cooly who brought it complained of fever and would not go farther. This seems to have been already last week. Now I am glad that it is all over. My shoes in which I came up got a little hole on the large toe in coming up the Ghaut. Still I had to spare them for all my walking out, for the boots are too narrow. Now a finger may pass through the hole, but they are now very comfortable for me, better than any new pair. However for appearance sake and to bring no dishonour on you I shall now put on new shoes when I go out. I wished especially to have all the papers for going on with my work. Now it will be easy for me to occupy myself methodically every day. For the last days this trifle occupied me so much, that I at last saw the Cooly in my dream. Thanks for all the trouble you had with it. - In the morning your letter of the 23d arrived. You say little of Fred Müller, perhaps he had no news. Did you show him my father's letter? Formerly I sent them to Tellich. but at present don't know well how to manage. I hope you will see much of Mrs Cummin and have real communion with her. I do think she will profit by such a change after several years absence. Give my Christian love to her and the dear Youngs. What a pity that he has something similar to what I got 2 years ago. Let him take care of it. It is not to be trifled with. But God will let him pass more easily. A minister gives more occasion to provoke a chastisement on the chest, and I only wish I may learn all what is meant to be taught thereby. - Mrs Lasc. wrote to me, expressed herself pleased with her visit, also her hearing Hebich; they are building the Chapel at Honore (which is nearly done, the building part wholly it is now temporarily covered up and will be finished D.V. after monsoon. They will beg a Missionary from the deputation. Send my enclosed on to her. It's only because I cannot write more to yourself, that I pass this thro' your hands.

Question: who is to have the Chinese fan?

{My dear Mama Penty thanks for all the fine things you sent me. Especially also to Mam for the topi which I put on for my walk this evening It is very warm for the ears. The one pomkai was still good, the other half spoiled. the ____________________ look very nice and the ________ shoes are a great joy to me. The ginger juice has all gone into the clothes, but I am glad that I do no more want ____________ eat butter and pappadam (yours) almonds and the _________________ (sugar seeds) of Papa's bottle. _________________ _________ (moving the hands in a circle) that ____________ is very nice for playing. Nanny is very glad to have got such penty clothes. Nanni said _________________________________ (this is not the case) ________________ ________________________________________________________________ To the _________ I have said _________________________________________________ Papa says that's not fine. When I come down must make Curry like the Cooks Curry here, not much ________so I eat plenty. _________________________ shoes ___________________ coat _________ Cockburn _________________________ ___________________________________________________________________________ The sun has made me very arge in the shadow this evening ______________ Fred. G.}

Halliday wrote a nice letter. When answered I hope to send it. He felt with Groves an overflow of words and confusion of language making it difficult to find what he was driving at! A young connexion of his in Engld turned Roman Catholic but as the priest wished him to pray to Mary for her divine aid, he was so shocked that he left them again. - I think the Monsoon must have begun. We have Southerly winds and the mist coming up from the valley: now I hope you will have it cooler. - May the Lord help the poor women and Cugnen! Tell the latter's family that I wish them to be comforted by getting Jesus to themselves! Love to all
 Yours HG

Nath. seems not satisfied with 3 1/2 Rups but I shall see the 1st of June. He writes sometimes in a complaining style to his wife f.i. 27 miles from Kaity to Koterg! you know it's only 17

