Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry

<53>* Chiracal <15>* 16th Ag <51.>*
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa.

This morning 15th I have received yours of the 9th. I am glad you give me leave to make windows in your roor, nothing else I assure you! I hope Mrs. Irion will receive benefit from the Dr at Coimbatur who is I heard yesterday by Capt Carr a very clever man, his wife had the same sickness as Mrs FitzG. The pulpit is neither unsafe nor warmeaten; the brethren think it will be nicer and as the new one is to be higher and farther in the chapel the people at the end of the chapel will hear far better! Moeg<ling>* told Hebich that you should remain on the hills a much longer time: but after all Hebich is glad if you are here when the new brother come to give him directions about the language. If indeed the hills are the place were you could recover the best I should advise you to remain longer; or to return there during the heat: but I fancy that if a real recovery has began as it appears, a visit or stay here will not stop it, or retarde its progress: may God show you what is best! Our dear Vau has no pain what ever neither in the throat nor in the longs nor is his voice hoarse, his tambac is not quiet well that's all, and so is David. I gave them again oil to day if it does not help I shall try the wet sheet, what they pass is undigested and slime and rather too often; but they are very merry and a pretty good appetite. After all I had news of my sister, they are well; anxious to hear how you are. My brothers have not received the letter I sent them neither your report.

Mlle parait trŠs d‚cid‚e … refuser Mr St toute fois Hebich pense qu'elle n'est pas si d‚cidee de maniŠre … ne pouvoir ˆtre ‚branl‚e. Cpt Carr qui ‚tait ici hier Ma charg‚ de ses salutations pour toi Comme Hebich lui disait "aujourd'hui n'‚tait pas un bon jour pour vous en venant ici; car jai beaucoup a faire avec les personnes qui prennent la Cˆne." Il a r‚podu je ne suis pas venu pour vous seulement je viens voir Mme G. et Mlle Kegel! We have now a very fine weather I feel again at home! All is here as usual no sick people beside Marth who has walked this morning to C to see the Dr in the hospital she returned without seeing Hebi. he had taken a dose of medecine, he takes very often and says always he is well! At Anjer they are very fine said he, they have nearly given up drinking. he is rather enchanted with Thomotious well doing there, he not only run after them watch them, but smell them! No one can have done what he is doing, the women have now jaquetes like our own women here at Cherical. Now dear papa, with love and obedience from me, kisses from our pets Salams from all
 Yours J. Gundert

last night Hagar was safly deliverd of a son praise to God for this to be over. Mother and child are well.
Arabella has not written to N being with Hagar tell him please 
