Rev. H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

<18>* Chiracal 19th Avril <51>*
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa

<Char->*Friday <18. Apr>* evening we have just returned from Cannanore were we have had a good day. It is now pouring down all the girls have arrived quite wet, we had no rain during our way to this; but it came down just as we had reached. Yesterday Hebich came very early and brought yours of the 11the for which accept my thanks Dear M<ögling>* I am sorry for him. The other day in reading with the girls I was struct* with Isaiah 54 ver 17 and I though<t>* of dear M. I would have liked to send it to him, now more so since I have heard what is going on. May God keep him in perfect peace! 
Mrs Lascelles has told us that her son who has become a clergyman is a Pusyet and so is it appear Mrs Ward What Mrs L sais of her daughter in law as having very little life is rather suspectful; when I asked how it was that she is no more so fine as she was said to be while bride, she answered, oh* _... they look so much after money, they want Mr L to give them much more property the whole matter is about riches and goods of this world. I hope the Holloway's ointment may be blessed for you as well as for dear M. Je suis fach‚e que Mme B<ühler>* a pu te contredire sur un sujet aussi clair dans la parole de Dieu et appeler cela simplement opinion! ce n'est pas un bon signe! Il est facile a ce prix d'avoir l'approbation du monde soit disant chretien et ˆtre appel‚ "Fine nice people"

Joseph's children shall go to Tel on monday G.W.

The bandy man has brought me yours of 14th that is rather quick only 3 days, thanks for your kind correction on my spelling. I do wish they may all be profitable to me; but Helas I am such an old mistakes maker that there is not much hope still these two mentioned I hope to remember! I am very glad to know my dear Feddy has been at Oti, and has been pleased with the lake. the play things are kept very well for him. I am very much obliged to dear Mr Sanderson for his giving his gelly to the pet F. Well now that you give me some hope of your staying there up during the rain I am thankful and r‚joice hoping the Lord will be pleased to bless it for the restoration of your health as well as the one of F. I shall also be exceedingly glad if you try Kotirgheri which has been so blessed for me. In the mission house there I have began to relieve. Now my chief reason in writing so soon after your letter is that I wish to know whether Mr Moerike would like me to send him some flanell by the same opportunity? I have got some such as the ‚chantillion here joint for 1 Rp the yeard and some very fine white one for 1 Rp 3 ans per yeard. As he may perhaps be wishing such gray flanell for dressing gown or coat I beg you to ask him, this I do to excuse me before him who had requested me when I left the hills to try to get him such things as these kind of flanells, Give me soon an answer because one cannot always get it? Paul thanks for the letter sent him. he has a curious kind of iruption under the left arm it is quite like a blister and spreads rapidly Cpt Y. advised us to put bread dipt in water upon it and flour to hinder ist spreading so far. He had himself some what of the kind, Vau calls it urumbu, he has Elisabeth Blandfort to play with him as he likes her more than any one. David showed his first tooth yesterday the 18th he is very well and a good boy too.

My love to all and from all
 Yours J Gundert

