Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

25 Kaity 11 May 51
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening Mglg on his last Saturday visit brought your's of the 4th. Also one from Hoch, whose Pauline wrote about Marie: "Sie ahmte den Löwen mit rauher Stimme nach und verwandelte dieselbe wieder in eine sanfte kleine Stimme wenn das Mäuschen sprach" alluding to the poem which she recited at the examination. After dinner Marie occasionally asks "Papa derfe mer eppis dichte? willst Du die erste Linie sagen" etc but that seems to be now nearly at an end. Pauline often goes to Gundldg. to see the dear children who then receive her under "lautem Jubel". - Insp. read the report of the Genl Conference and seemed not quite to approve that one allowed the 2 Oberlaender <Kies, Albrecht>* to return without giving them a fuller lesson. So Barth writes to Mgl. Kullen wrote a joyful letter expecting soon to go to Basle for a few months of preparation, before coming out. Graul has written a very bad description of the work at Mangalore - evidently trying to do our Society as much harm as possible. So I wonder what he will have said of Cannanore! He is a Lump, said Mglg. - The same may be said of Gützlaff concerning whom Hamberg was obliged to write a report and have it printed at Canton, showing that G. had reported to Germany what he knew to be untrue (f.i. of a whole village having thrown away their idols, he himself being present etc - whilst there is now not one Christian in it) It is a most melancholy picture. -

Now I will talk of nearer subjects. Feddy is well these days and cheerful. Nanni prays repeatedly with him he also allows me to do it, which at first he would not do, as if fearing it might become too long. - I never said any thing about removing the little mud Verandah before my room - I mean stones are to be put where the water dropping from the roof (the caves) has hollowed out the ground. As this water cannot run off, it of course renders the Verandah damper than it otherwise would be - I do not know if the bookbinder <Barid>* at Tell. is a rogue. He is a Quilonman and relation of Thaddai, and not converted, but there is nothing particularly roguish about him, to my knowledge! - I hope you do not get again Uniamma, Arab. also wrote to Nathanael how insufferable her behaviour was. In my absence I wish you to have as little as possible of this kind of extra charges. - Your account of the Begbie's amused me but without giving me any joy: these are the sort of people who especially disgust worldly persons with the very name of religion. May they discover that they have to lay the first foundations, and that hitherto they had nothing beyond fine talk. - Day before yesterday Minchin was here with his eldest son from Palhalli. He brought Selams from Halliday and the Groves. West had passed through and declared the house to be in danger of falling, because its dimensions were not all according to the number seven. Of this I know nothing, but so much I have learnt, that this sugarmanufactury looks very much like a house divided against itself. - This evening M<ogl>* will return to Ott. have one meeting more tomorrow and go in the evening to Avalanche. He says he feels decidedly better, but the change appears not very evident. - As for my person, I shall when at Kotirg begin again some watercure processes, perhaps the wet sheet or something else, it may now be more effective after having interrupted it so long. Mglg will tell you all about us, about the 22d or 23d. The Bishop <Dealtry>* has invited all the Missionaries for Wednesday evening (14th) to dinner. but I did not accept, as it is rather inconvenient for me to be out at night. So I shall not go before Thursday to Kotirgh. for in the 1st place the Cooly has not come, and in the 2d I can only have a horse then, when Mör. sends his back Wednesd evening. The Bishp heard that Mglg was to go before that day, so he invited him separately Friday evening. But it seems to have been rather an uninteresting evening, some worldly persons being likewise present. The Kotirgh Chaplain had asked for leave to divide the service between himself and Bührer the one reading the prayers the other the sermon. This the Bishop would not allow though he has no objection against their taking the whole by turns. He tried to defend this in conversation with Mglg without pointedly alluding to it saying something like this: unity may be the right thing and it may yet fully come to pass, but at present such a fusion might create confusion etc" - Yesterday evening before going off Mör. prayed - and Mglg yet once more talked in private to the Buhlers, chiefly to exhort them to have common morning and evening prayers. - The Cholera is in Dharwar Weigle's mention that 2 of the Church died. Mrs Albr. is gone to Hoobly to assist Mrs Müller who was delivered of a son! - When Mglg comes you have to give him (or remind him of taking) Barth's Bible Commentary, a Canarese-Samscrit work written on folio rolled together on the medicine table, 6 or as many little boxes of Hallisch pills as he likes to take.

Bühler will now have to go to Ottac. for his work in M's stead. Rather a trial for Mrs B. - Nath has sent through Nicolaus a bottle of honey nearly full to Arabella. Mgl yesterday told me that their servants have begun to steal from it he will protect it in future. Now farewell
 Yours HG

