Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

27 Kot. 3 Aug 51
 <Sunday.>*
My dear wife

No letter from you lies before me - but extraordinary event 2 letters from Hebich following quickly one after the other. This is worthy of all gratitude and I am truly rejoiced to hear so many news. He also tells me of David's eating pomekay with Paul - a story which proved of great interest to Freddy when he heard it: he wanted to know if Vau goes himself down from Heb's Verandah into the garden to break the fruits: and - another question, if none will be left when he returns to the Coast.

For 2 days Fr' bowels have been a little out of order because he did again eat earth. I therefore gave him medecine this morning, when he behaved most awkwardly and as if suffering the greatest injustice. He has come quite out of the habit of eating what he does not like. When he became reconciled to me afterwards he was very nice and evidently ashamed of the hubbub he had made. - The other day I discovered that the postman is so slow, that he keeps all the letters sent in the morning for 24 hours before sending them off. I gave him a lesson and sent a complaint to Hodges about it. Often I had to wonder why my letters were 3 days from this to Ottacamund, but this explains it. In consequence I have lost my nice letter writing time (after tea) and must now write after dinner, to send off in the evening. The writer is very angry with me and does no more allow me to come into the office, because I discovered his trick. This will last some days till he gets his rebuke from Hodges. Poor fellow! - Yesterday I saw Capt Briggs the chief heir of the General. He is very earnest and wellacquainted with Hunter and Hislop in Nagpur. But his Irvingite notions about the humane nature of our Lord - insisting chiefly on his being tempted in all things like ourselves - are not to my taste. He seems very settled in these views, so I could not advance much in conversation with him on this subject. - Today we had 14 Europeans in the service viz. Francis and his wife along with Robinson etc I find Rob. has not yet written to Heb. I shall see him again tomorrow, and hope that he will himself write a few words. They asked after you I mean chiefly Francis and seemed interested in the Cannanore work. But I have hardly spoken a word with Fr. directly.

The children with Sister B. passed last week an afternoon with Mrs Whistler, when Feddy heard again the parrot talk <">*how do you do<">* - and listened to the Ladies playing on the piano being seated on the ground. The 2 others followed his example to the great amusement of the Ladies. That afternoon however he had a great longing after Nanny, who was not with them.

From Kaity I heard yesterday that Sister I. is still poorly. Mrs Buhler has honoured me with a note to thank for the fan or what it was that you sent up, and which after Freddy had yet broken it more, I sent over by Mör. It seems that has pleased them. Beuttler's are perhaps to come over here before they leave the hills Metz is on his way hither: that is to say his horse is here, and also a servant, but he has not yet made his appearance being probably with that dear headman in the Orangevalley, who strokes him so lovingly on every visit, and who wishing to do something extra in his devotions, had for a whole month prayed every morning standing on one leg, hoping that thus our God would hear him the sooner. Mörike does not like this man so much, but Metz is enchanted with his _______ <Metz has just arrived>

Today is my sister Marie's birthday, and tomorrow Samuel's, whom you no doubt remember. Already 11 years old - how these children do grow! You never mentioned having received the last letter from home. I shall write these days, but if you have anything don't send it now, but in the beginning of next month, so that it reach me about the 3d or 4th. - Your letter to Mrs Groves came not at all to my liking: however I got some lines together to enclose it in and sent it off. You knew well that I had written long before that to Gr. and a heavy work it was, taking me as much time as 2 or 3 other letters. To write a second time in that direction was indeed an effort! I recommend you to answer quickly such letters, the longer you delay, the more exertion they cost you at the end. My real grief is to see that they are so out of the way - however dear people - that there is no likelihood of their ever coming into a smoother water - and what can one write under such circumstances! On the 1st of August I had a nice day - I had a fine letter from Mögling who at times is preparing for a blessed end, at others expecting his recovery in a short time but working on with much peace of mind. Then I had my conversation with Briggs - and spoke much - afterwards a strong expectoration and then I felt as if my throat was clearing for speaking more. It was to me something like the first decided step forwards after standing still for months. You will I am sure continue with me in praising as well as in praying. We shall yet see more of His wonders of mercy - let us trust Him for it and give Him all the glory.

Now farewell love to the children and all
 Yours HGdt

Tomorrow I shall write to Heb. D.V.

Sophie dreamt that a certain person became again "catholisch" on account of an offered engagement
