<17>* Chiracal 16th April <51>*
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa!

On sunday as I was at Can. I recieved your welcomed letter of the 7th for which Hebich has already I believe thanked you in my name. Paul was glad to have one for himself, still he soon tore it off at which when I showed my displeasure he said _______ We are thankful to hear such good news of our dear Freddy. How would he laugh if he could see what a beautiful tower has been sent to him from Bombay. A very high tower with many solgers, it is surrounded by water which flows from its rocky botom; two fine little boats at the command of the gardes. Well it so fine so fine I cannot discribe it, besides this fort is an other play, which Miss K seems to anderstand: this one I shall send in the box I intend to send you. These beautiful things have been sent by Mr Zorne through Mr W. Jackson who is going to Telli. when he has to stay for some weeks I have not seen him but Marie who was at C. on Monday has recieved them from his hand. Please dear Papa to acknowledge these in thanking Mr Zorne they are very costly and expensive things I believe. Mr Jackson has told Marie that my cosin Perreg. was doing his business wonderfully well, he brough out not only of the finest waches; but also juwels and chains etc. next week he is going to Calcutta. 
All our People had a great joy to see ice. Mr West has been so kind as to send 6 pounds of it every body in the coumpound has eaten a bit of it. It was a joy I assure you Jacob who had the lump in his had could not keep it any more his nerves were all frosen said he, after the piece had passed in all the hands I throw it down with all my strength so that small pieces were spread every were, You may imagine how every one jumpd to get a bit of it. Some said, they give no sugar to eat with this! other it has no taste. Other kept it in their clothes in order to keep it a longer time; and lo! it had disapierd having nothing but water. I was my self very much amused. ice is now sold at C. for 2 ans per pound. Just as our joy was drowing to an end about the ice and play things, behold! the skies became black on every direction and as we were wondering what would come dow, two dropes fell Miss K had the benefit of one and I of the other, we took it for granted that a quantite would fall, so in a great hurry each of us run to put in safly that which would have spoiled by much rain. We had a good deal of straw out side as well as grass, the whole was quickly covered! And after all not one drope more came, As for my self I could but laugh: for I am so well that I do not wish for cooler season, but poor Marie was rather disapointed. I would have liked rain for our dear Vau and the garden, the dear boy is still very cross; but no more hot nor fevrish.

Teman has not yet returned of which we are very glad for there is no querrelle at present amongst the women. Eunice mother of Rachel is here. Eva our dear Tomas' wife was here too with her son Paul who is the very picture of his father, he is healthy and well. Hebich wanted them to stay for next Lord supper; but Eva refused to stay on account of her mother who is not well at Mah‚. Hebich's Paul is not well at all, he looks poorly, he passes blood for some days. Our cook feels the heat very much, he has no rest neither by night nor by day; he goes about to preach; though Hebich has told him he should not do so. I believe if the poor man was a little provoked he would become mad. Some of the littles girls are somewhat fevrish: we gave them Hebich's dose with some oil this morning. The business of the roofs is nearly at an end.

I regrette that you can not have the papers mentioned in your letter from Mr Schlegel; the girls have the sight of the pictures. You know perhaps that West has given his famous school to Hebich, who has lost no time to ask for an addition of ground Now in sending kisses to my dear F. I remain  Yours J. Gundert

P.S. the Horse which throws down Vau is our dush* which he tries to ride like a horse

