 Chiracal 13th April <51>*
 <Palmsunday>*
Dear papa.

Only a short note today as I have many enclosed you will have enough news. Thanks for yours of the 5th which Hebich brought me wednesday as he came on the evening to give some med‚cine to our cook; who has been rather hot and pationate from the heat he is better; Many thanks for all the news. I do not wonder you were fatigued after G.<roves'>* visit: more from exitement then from exertion. I hope you will soon see your way as to stay on the hills for the rainy season at least. I am sorry to hear dear F was again not well I hope he soon get again his good hapetite and cheerful face. At last Mrs. Lascelles has arrived she has spent Thursday with the Youngs on the evening she spent one or two hours with us. She likes Hebich very much, he had a long talk with her alone in the Y's house. She is pretty nice; but as you say rather too much talk still I hope she is more upright and true then she use to be though she has still much to gain in this respect it appears to me!

I write you this on Saturday as I shall have to go to C. to morrow. 
The wife of Joseph at Can. Elise is very poorly always fever and cough, her chest seems to be affected, no milk for her little girl. Hebich felt rather anxious about her, as for her poor husband he weeps as a little child, she is with her mother Emanuel's wife.

Joseph should like very much to know what is your mind regarding his boys; he wishes still to send them at Telli and is afraid at the same time to go intirely against H he asked me what I thought on the subject. I answered that it was difficult to say any thing, that of coarse as for the place and climat they would be better at Tel. but I could not advise them this or that. Nani wrote us if they had already gone to Tel. After all H. has told them that they may do what they like having told them his whole mind before hand they know not what to do!

Paul sends his loves and salams to you both, he is rather cross, the heat trays him a good deal, No rain as yet, thunders, close* nights; but not a drop comes to us. David does not mind the heat he is very well though full of prickly heat.

Well I dont know what you will think of Elisabeth's letter She can not do better we have done what we could! We shall have the Lord supper on Easter day. All here is as usual. Teman has gone for the feast at Tel. she needed to eat with her daughter at Vishenu*, the other day she told the women that she would ask Hebich to give her an hasband! Francis little girls are very fine she is now thankful to have these tweens, they grow very fast, they are quite fat. I have just recieved by Eunike the mother of Rachell a nice note from dear Aline Monday evening they reached chombala Eunike is still at Can. I shall see her tomorrow there. Now Adieu. I have begged Hebich to consider about Cognian before he baptises him he does not please me at all. As idle as one can be and always excuses nothing like truth

{I Vau send kiss to papa to Etty Yesterday I was not well but today I am better.}

Is he not worth of our trust and full confidance, worthy of praise! Oh may I but abide in him, his word in me, than I may ask all what I will it shall be granted. this morning in reading about Hezekiah's sickness and cure I was ashamed of my unbelief. Oh for years1 which can hear, yeys1 which can see, and a mind which can comprehend. Oh for a mind to follow the Lord whereever he goes

{Now I Vau did fall down and I want write to my Dear papa to comfort me and forget my pein I go to bed and send love to you to dear brother.} 
All the people here wish their names to be told to you as well as of those at C. Cpt and Mrs. Begbee I saw at C. on sunday. They go regularly to H. chapel. She speaks very highly of her daughter her son in law the Francis, I hope she may have recieved good from them; the mother is still a great talkative according Cpt Young's judgement.

All here is as usual. Joseph not yet decided regarding his children. The parents of our Johanna have left H. and have determined to take our Johanna if possible on sunday they were all waiting on the road to catch her, but knowing their intention we had her with us in the vandy. I wish she be more decided herself what to do! and what do you think on sunday as the preaching was over, the boys leaving for Tah‚ there came Vedamutu with Abraham and another to take away the second son who had remained with Hebich after the departure of the father; they had already caught him when Hebich was called Cpt Y who was still at H. house went out and rescued the boy from the father's hand, on Monday Hebich went to the pollice to have them punished. The eldest son having become a Mappla was just to be circumsised on that day; West who was also at H. house when this happened was very much astonished and could not believe that it could be his servant Vedamutu. Now farewell
 Yours afftly J. Gundert

