Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

10 Kaity 27 March 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening I received yours of the 23d (I wonder by the way how you managed to write so long a letter before going to Church on that day) What you say of your throat may all be true, still I say take care of it. I am sorry you have such trouble with the women. But what is to be done! With prayer and patience they will be brought round. Tell Temen I am very sorry to hear that she is so determined to grieve you after all that happened. Cugnicutti will not escape some punishment for her wickedness at such a season. You may also thank Sneham and Lea in my name for their wish to follow the more after God, whe... others are falling off, and showing all the evil of human nature, - He will remember what they do under such circumstances to comfort and cheer the hearts of those who have the oversight over them. - Fried. is indeed much better he looks more healthy and begins to run with the others. Yesterday I made to them a "Gautsches", on the branch of a tree. This was a great delight to them. - I will have written already, that he several times went on horseback and behaved on the whole courageously. - Mrs B. wishes to send off so I have no time to loose, and as Mrs Irion gives you also a letter, I will let this suffice for this time - Sanderson I found very nice, he praises the Bishop <Dealtry>* for his most energetic sermon, the like he has not heard since he left England. Mrs J Gr is much the same as 10 years ago. She has a tall daughter Mary. Jessie is in England, afflicted by some kind of fits. Mrs Coffin I heard cannot bear to hear even the name of H.<ebich>* So I took care not to mention him. Her girl is grown very tall. - My dear Vau ought not to say _______________ but be very submissive. Dear David's and his health and joyfulness give me much pleasure. I hope they often comfort you in dreary moments. Fred. laughed loud when I told him all those details. Now love to you Miss K. H. the dear Youngs and all the people
 Yours HG.

