Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

35 Koterg. 21 Aug 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Yours of the 16th came running here in 3 days: many thanks for it. - I have not yet heard of the Fitzg's or Begbie's whose wife had the same sickness as Mrs Fitz. do you mean Dr Portious' or Cpt Carr's? - I do not think the hills would do me any good in the cold season - it seems when the air is too light, my lungs have more work of it, than is good for them. It may be possible I return hither after February, though that is a long time to think of before hand. At all events I feel quite sure, that returning after the Monsoon will not make me worse. - So you heard of your sister, but do not communicate to me the news. I fancy your brothers' address was sent to us last year after I had ordered the reports to be sent. Next year we will try better: for this year they will already have been sent off. 
I am glad Hagar has got so well through this time. Give her and Judah my love and that I wish them to be thankful to the Lord for this mercy. 
Today Bühr returned from Kaity, saw the wonderful child etc of course Bühl is the whole day invisible and Mör. must stay even next week, that there be always some body at home, to fetch the Dr in a hurry or help in some other way if there should be necessity. What a wonder that our children do still live without so much care! B. has invited me to the baptism, which will be Sunday after this (31 Aug). Mrs Ir. is better than she was the Dr has not yet begun any work, and so she will escape his eternal promises probably next week and go down to Coimb. Mrs Francis or Robinson promised to look for a logis.

Occasionally you may tell West that I had to pay 14 out of his 22 Rs to Mr Schnarre, for repairs in Larkhill.

But Mrs B. comes and troubles me wonderfully to make ready for Mrs Cockb's dinner. B. will not go as he is somewhat tired. But Feddy will go - it is indeed a will. There is no joy like this of going to other people. He has got a comforter or what they call it from Mrs Weigle. This he puts on - the velvet coat must accompany it, and then the fine Topi - and a shining face. It is quite a joy to look at his preparations. What shall I do to finish your letter in a hurry I pity the empty paper and more yet my empty head, for if I had some thing I might easily tell well, a story! Lehmann brought a long beard - Mglg did not speak with him a fortnight, and then wrote him before the Lord's supper a friendly advice to take it off, or he would bring it before the Station Cfce and eventually before the Comm. But the letter is to be secret, he will never speak of it. Well Lehm. took it down, all were pleased. However afterwards he repented of it and told Degg. etc of it. D. found there was a sort of despotism in M's note, and tried now and then to give M a knock for it. M. at last took him under his large gun, and gave him a fine lesson So after all Gr. joined with Mglg more than before, and confessed feeling a dislike at Degg's repeated childishnesses. 
Now farewell. Sutter is widower! I wish I could write him a friendly letter, but it is so far and a long time on the road!
 Kisses to the children
 Yours HG.

