Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

30 Koterg. 9 Aug 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Tho' I wrote only yesterday, yet as I have received 2 letters at once from you (2d and 4th Aug) I think it my duty to answer at once your questions. - Tho' the Fitzg's are to leave tomorrow yet as you ask I will tell you all - paper I have bought here, in the time the Cooly was on his slow way - ink I bought from Mrs Buhrer - psalms I got from Kaity - but the 1000 proverbs in my copy (interleaved and something written into them) and also if there be place the Kerala Utp. of Fritz are desirable. Yet no hurry about them. The remaining time will pass rapidly and I have my hands full of work without anything coming from other quarters. - About the Coolies? perhaps 2 windows just as in your bedroom would do no harm. But I donot wish more than that. - I am glad Cheecoti is useful and does your work. Nanny learns a good deal of English with Mrs Bührer to say nothing of Tulu and Canarese and Tamil. - Hoffm has written a letter to us of the Mal. stations (addressed to me) and one to Möglg a longer one in which he says yet more plainly how little he likes his present position and how much he still feels his loss of a year ago. He deserves to be prayed for, he is evidently very much cast down. - So is Irion on account of his wife's illness. She has ulceration of the womb, and a bad careless Dr: perhaps he will therefore go down with her to Coimbatur to visit the clever physician there. - Robins. paid yesterday evening his farewell visit, regretted not to have written to Heb, but he intends doing it the next free forenoon. He has so many picknicks and distractions etc. - How is dear Vau. I often think of him, because all that is connected with throats, and breath and hoarse voice finds a cord within me, on which the least touch resounds intensely. - I have written to our 3 children with this mail. I hope the next mail will soon arrive and bring you also something. If newspapers come, Heb may send them over quickly to Fred. M to dispatch to me without delay. - You say something of a new pulpit? Has the old become unsafe or wormeaten? or is it not high enough? - If Miss Francis is so nice, why not keep her in the place? She would be better there than with her mother. Would not perhaps Capt Carr like to perform so charitable an action: I mean from pure philanthropy.

Beuttler gave very bad news of Young in Islington. He seems to make money by the Mission and is so estranged to his wife that people suppose it is not mere business what makes him spend 1-2 days every week out of his house. They are rapidly losing the rest of their character. I wish they may repent in time. But perhaps an open fall is needed to bring them to their senses. - Of Dietz he (B.) speaks very well. His parents are in Austria, opposed to the truth, he has difficulty to learn languages, but a turn for practical work and is not difficult to be led. He was very serious in College no trifler in matters of soul's salvation.

I hope I shall not forget to mention your wants when I write next to Tellicherry. But I think it is a long time since they have produced any thing new.

John is with Stanger at Bellary, learning English (his great wish) and superintending some boys. He is not happy and easily annoyed with contrarieties. St. mentioned once having given him a good lesson, when he said - I wish I had rather died than come to Bellary. Probably when he has been sufficiently humbled he will return to Mang where his place evidently is. 
Nothing else that I know of except love to all and esp. to you. I am certainly continuing to improve: and am glad when I am again with you and the 2 little ones. Meanwhile time runs away so rapidly that I fancy the moment to be very near, when f.i. our dear Marie may return to us! But what all may not be stored up for us in the meantime. Certainly mercies far outnumbering the trials if we will but keep our eye steady on the beginner and finisher of faith!
 Now farewell
 Yours HGdt

