Rev. H Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<41>* Chiracal 4th July <51>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa

It is not possible that I have again made a mistake in the word iruption look well! I would understand better the correction If you would kindly put it on a small bit of paper separatly. first my word and the right one under it I am rather stupid therefore do not understand all your corrections, you would oblige and help me much in doing so.

I doubt the Lady <Kegel>* will accept the Gent St<anger>* being not of our Commity. Thursday 3d I recieved yours of the 28th for which many thanks. I shall try what I can send by the Begbies the books of course, but the pickles I donot know wether one dare give charge of such things. Could you not buy at Ooti Europeen pickles which would be better than Mango. Irion left on wednesday with Mathu of edacadu to go to Paalgat Huber is to go with them too. this may also not be in a very good spirit: for Iri knows that it is given to Cannanore. Today the marriage cards of Mr and Mrs Robinson were sent to Hebich. he came here this morning from Anjercandy he was wet through and changed himself in his Vandy after he had left the horse. At Anj they are pretty well, two devils specially are there the drinking one and marraing one said H. I hope the General may still live to learn to know his Saviour; may you be blessed to him! Thanks to God for the good day he has given you: May He multiply them, and having worked that which is pleasing in his sight restore you to health Such precious days are never forgotten for the fruits which they bring are like the gold out of the fournaise. Sickness or afflictions without such precious time cannot be of much help to the prosperity of the soul. Hebich Will soon write to you, he is still waiting for some news from Mangalore and then you will have the long correspondance by which you will see that Moeg. and Grei are better together The sick people are nearly the same Paul has been told that his sickness are piles inside. What would you advise him in this case? he has asked for the pills which have done so much good to Martha Elisa's mother. I shall send him one of those little boxes of Hallish p. I had also a good time with Marie, a curious word of her made it necessary to have between us an explanation we had grace to confess our faults torards each others. and after I had said in what I am wrong to her I had liberty to point out in what I believe her to be wrong too which she acknowledged franckly. I thank God for this Merci for it is an answer to my prayers and I know that it shall turn to my profit and to the Glory of God. My great weakness in not oposing her in what I see and think differantly from her, had made her to take it as a want of truth and uprightness. and indeed it has some thing to to with it. Now away with the fear to offend creatures with the purpose to keep peace Thank God for this gain, He has pulled dow and made sin before me that in which I sow still virtues My writing is worse than before; but it is so dark one can scarsly see - the rain is pouring down by torrent it is a fine monsoon love from all and to all
 yours J. Gundt

