Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

14 Kaity 5 Apr 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

I got yours of the 30th M. yesterday evening late enough, but will try to answer this morning before somebody goes in to Kaity: for to morrow being a Sunday no body is sent in. - Why do you not keep my letters till they are answered. It would sometimes facilitate your writing, and I am then not obliged to ask the same questions over again. - What you say of Joseph pleases me, I regard it as a sign that he is prepared to give his children to the Lord, if he consents to send them even a little farther off. And as they are a hot family, the cool Nettur school is certainly preferable for their health. I think Nath. feels quite easy here in the colder climate. - Halliday can have heard only thro' the Groves' about my state of health. Of course some body who sees or speaks me for the first time, may think more of this illness than we who are now accustomed to it. - The parcel I wanted to send thro' Mrs Lascelles to you (for Elizbth) has a second time been taken to the post, of which I am sorry as it is addressed to Mr Fritz. However I have written to Cal. and hope you will get it safely sooner or later. - Groves came the 3d, related of Engld and the Plymouthians in general. His quarrels with them are especially on the principal, which they hold "that everyone has to protest against the evil in his neighbour" which leads them so far that hardly any 2 stick together in brotherly love, and that many individuals, some of them much respected formerly by "the Brethren" have fallen away entirely, disgusted by the quarrels about doctrine and the hairsplitting discussions of philosophical questions. Darby is still one of the best and in his heart most liberal, but as party leader he also has become very much changed. Newman is an infidel reproached Groves with trusting in "dead men and old books" - his wife still nice - Lord Curzon, who once preached up and down the country, is one of the most abandoned profligates - Newton holds the sinful human nature of our Lord, him Corser also has joined - Lord Congleton is still very humble, and his family on the whole in a happy state; Gr. spent some time with him, but Cronin did not receive Groves at all. On the whole there is amazingly little love in the sect, and therefore very little progress. - But G. Müller goes on marvellously. He is cut by the Plymouthians, also by Mr Chapman, who thro' Miss Paget has been led to go the whole length of Darby - but Craig still stays with him. He has built his orphan house with 16,000 œ, which he got all without begging, and keeps now above 300 orphans. Groves sister Lydia is the head of this establishmt. Müller's Lydia is now truly converted. Still Gr. seems to fear a little lest M's heart be a little lifted up by all his spiritual prosperity. M. himself seems to feel that, and when the other day a fine house was offered to him for his private use, he would not take it, lest the world say, that after all he has bettered his worldly circumstances by these spiritual doings. As for dear Gr. himself, I could not hear without emotion his confession how all his plans have failed, how he spent 20,000 œ to no purpose, he spoke of it, as if the only fruit of it was this that the Church now was warned never to try the same way. Brice also tried and failed. Kaelberer with a rather rich wife, is in an easy position, and still jealous as a Missionary. There was some hint about his having been left by all, which was beyond all his expectation - and that therefore he failed etc I cannot wonder that there should be now and then a deep depression on him: yet I must regret to observe that he is still not at rest, but much driven about by cares and worldly matters which must try him excessively. He did not speak of it, but is evidently at daggers drawn with Minchin. - He ordered me to give to Annamma 1 Rup for him (her sister Gnanamma he says died in the Lord). I like Ann. - When Gr. was gone I felt I had talked a little too much, and enjoyed not my accostomed night's rest. It is now all right again, but I feel that a regular intercourse with him would be too exciting for me, and therefore even doubt if I shall go and repay his visit. - You speak of my staying here the Monsoon. I have no mind for it, and yet confess that I was brought to think of it the night after Gr's visit. At last it would seem strange if I was to go down to come up again after a short time. Still I cannot settle this question in a moment, and shall therefore let you know when I think to know what the Lord's will is. As for Fred. Gr. advised me strongly not to take him down too soon: because nothing is so likely to bring his bowels (the mesenteric glands) into order as a longer stay here. Today he is not quite well, and wants his accustomed appetite. I shall therefore, you may rely on it, do nothing in a hurry - for I feel that he requires some time before he enjoy such a steady health as other children. Now then commit your cares to the Lord, he cares for you. Love to dear Vau and David - to Miss Kegel and Hebich, I hope soon to hear from him - remember me to the dear Youngs too and all the people at Ch.
 Ever yours HG.

