Rev. H. Gundert, Kotergherry, paid

<24>* Chiracal 12th <10>* May 51
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa.

I just recieve yours of the 6th this morning saturday. Mog is with you, still a few days and he will be here, I am glad to think this will find you at Kotergherry where dear Etty shall suffer less of the cold; for according Mrs Irion's letter his lowels are still very bad and this on account of the cold says she being not dressed worm anough - she is obliged to put to him the cloak of her own son. If he is not worm sufficiently let Nani put him two pairs of trawsers and some warm jaquets under. Your Kerala Ulpati was indid not difficult to be found. Whe I told Jacob that it was not the Rajah's own but Mr F. he quickly got it. Do you wish to have it send to you? 
Tomorrow Sarah shall be married to Henry, the big Darw, Martha made some objections to have Thomas; but after all she has accepted. We do not know as yet whom they will have from Telli Teman on thursday has recieved a fine flogging from Mr H. from that she is rather subdued and is praying very often, what she prays I cannot understand!

Here we had also wind but nothing extraordinary. Kaity is a terrible place for wind! I do wish the cooly might arrive soon.

May our Lord bless dear Sarah and make her to be a blessing were she is going, she will meet with many temptations; she is nice at present; and has many times given me joy! Aline and her were soalt amongst the others! May God raise some others from their sleep and bring them instead of these who are leaving.

Our boys are very nicely David catches his tub, his bad to stand up All is here as usual.

With love from all and to all specially to dear Sophie. Kisses to dearling Etty
 Yours afftly J. Gund

1auch herzliche Liebe Dein SHe
= 11th May

