Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

<46>* Koimbatur 24 Sept 51
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Sunday evening I got the news from Hodges that I cannot count on receiving Coolies by way of Sispara, so I changed my road and had to send Coolies extra to Ottac. and Kaity for the newly bought horse and for the daughter of Gnanam. Now we have got over this first part of the way I will shortly mention how I did it. I sent Feddy off about noon of Monday - he could not wait any longer, all anxiety to be ____________ - Nanni and samans with him, all after some trouble with the Burghers who did effectually raise the prices, otherwise we should have had their noise the whole day - They arrived well at Mettupalayam and went the next day in 2 stages to Coimbatur. - I left Tuesday after dinner on Bührer's horse down the Ghat, passing the house where the Blandford's formerly lived. Then leaving 3 Coffeeplantations to the left hand, I descended into the plantations of the Iruler. From there still a heavy descent through jungle - I walked about 9 miles of it and was tired at last. In Metap. I did not as yet find any body from Kaity. Also my horsekeeper remained 2 hours in the Bazar before he came to look after the horse and brought me my little bundle with bread - however I drank milk: and after all ate the bread, and when about to mount the common bandy to run during the night to Coimb. there arrived Mose with the horse from Ott. and letters from Mrs Fitzg. (telling the horse cost at last only 55 Rs) Bühl's and Mör. and bringing the girl. My own horsekeeper I did not see, he remained behind with wife and children, so shall have to send him off again, as I do not wish to be burdened with a family all the way. I took the girl <Marianne s Brf 3/1 52>* with me on the straw and then we rolled leisurely to Coimb. where we arrived at sunrise. I found the house easily (but Nanni had been going about 2 hours seeking it) Feddy had gone for a morning walk with Nanni and Ir's children. Then about 7 we saw each other - and are now making arrangements for going tomorrow evening one step farther. I hope we shall be at Palgh 26th morning. Our farther progress will depend on circumstances. I shall not wish to make delays. It is of course more expensive to go this way but as far as the help of men is required it is every where nearer at hand. We had a very fine time up there, and I shall not soon forget it, I hope. Feddy is now very cheerful and will I hope still bring some colour on his cheeks to Cannanore

News I have none from here, except that Mrs I. seems considerably better and sends Selam to you - It is rather hot - at least to my feelings. 
Now farewell - and may the Lord keep you all for a happy meeting. My love to Heb. and all in the house
 Ever yours
 HG.

