Mrs Gundert <Rr. S. Hebich>1, Cannanore, Bearing

44 Kotergh 18 Sept 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

I thank you for yours of the XYZ date (13th Cannanore postmark). I was glad to hear that dear Paul is getting better. I do not like much his feeding for weeks on Calomel, but the Dr probably thinks it very fine. As soon as there is blood in the stools you ought to discontinue all irritating medicines but of course this is meant only for future cases. Paul will I hope have escaped on Sunday from the Dr's treatment. Dear fellow it must be a sad thing for him to see the good things at table without partaking of them. But that also is to be learned.

I have never heard from Stang. nor about him since the time of his first asking for her. But if I go by way of Ott. I may see Wardlaw's and hear a word more about him. I believe they are people, with whom it will be easy to be on good terms -

How can you think that being with Strange could do John any good - I hear he publishes books on prophecy, and besides is courting a lady for several years - she is said not to like him, but from respect for his piety etc she again and again seems to turn a favourable ear to him in spite of herself and so he has a poor sort of existence. Surely there is little blessing on this Plymouth way! Did I tell you I sent Marie Monnard's letter and Dühner's too to Mrs Groves? I hope she will be rejoiced by it. Also in Young's newspapers, which arrived some days ago and gave me great pleasure (tell him that, please) - there is an account of the new Free Church in France which has suffered considerably from splittings caused by Plymouthians. I wish they would confine their splittings to themselves!

I have heard of the great baptism and hope you will have a fine time of it. I must no more ask questions, as you cannot answer them any more quietly. But I wonder how Cugnen f.i. is now.

Yesterday Mrs Lascelles' Tannicari Maria, whom I baptized at Chittur, came to me and asked for advice. She has left her service with young Mrs Lascelles and I did not know what to say to her. In the evening I went to see Mrs Ward who had arrived from Ott. for a visit, but found the whole party still at table, so could not ask. This morning I wrote to Mrs W. who tells me in answer that Maria has a very bad character from the young Lascelles. The poor woman herself complains that for 2 1/2 years she was not permitted to go to Church. So I do not wonder if she became a very bad servant. I do not know what to advise her now - perhaps to wait for Mrs Lasc. when they come from Honore (for I think they are likely to come up here, though I have not heard so lately) - for I would not invite her to Cann. except there was some provision made for her. Mrs W. talks of the possibility of giving her a small pension. Now we shall see! But it grieved me to think of the way in which many who when baptized bid fair to become something to the praise of God do afterwards get starved and miserable, so that there is no real fruit forth coming.

The account I have sent to Hebich, but here there is still a fragment I paid some money more to Bühr. to finish their account, and now come down very poor got no pony, Fitzg writes he can also find none for his wife. So after all I may purchase Huber's, if he is not too angry to deal with me. For as I wrote something to Fritz in excuse of Heb's words, Hub. is now writing every where bitter complaints against me. He is very poor indeed - how a little matter can upset him!

Haldwell has advised me to take some tonics, but I shall not begin up here. The Cockb's have invited us once more to dinner - so that will be the last I trust old C. is making progress in divine things. Also the son (Frank) seems to be nice. But I wish you peace and joy in our Lord with all that are dear to us
 Yours HG

