Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

19 Kotergh. 10 July 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

This time I have to answer two letters of yours, one with Sarasin's etc the other of the 4th. Thanks for your extracts of Heb's sermon. But you forgot to write what advice he gave to Bisset. - Muller has written that Irion left. "Huber, who had in his mind to visit Palg afterwards has resolved to accompany Irion to Coimbatur. But he has been sorry to hear that he will have to wait some weeks for Robinson. He fancies always he will be stationed at Palghat. I do not know on what his calculation is founded. On the whole I am curious how this matter will be arranged. It seems to occupy the minds of several brethren." So far M. You will have heard of old Aaron's death - happily in faith. - I have ordered some Baublöckle at Tellich. they will be sent to you. Now mark I do not object to Vau's playing with them when somebody careful is present, but the condition is the same, which our father made to us when he gave us a box full - after every play they must be carefully packed again into the box which is so arranged that it will hold just them and nothing else. If anything is lost, the want is then discovered immediately. You will pay for them what Fr M. charges. 
As for the lady <Miss Kegel>*, I have to announce in great secret that M.<ögling>* has written a draft of a letter for the gentleman <Stanger>* to copy, if he wants to pay his addresses to the lady in question. Let her well consider what she does. St. will be ordained, as I heard at Ottac. some months ago, and the Comm. will hardly object seeing Miss has been out 4 1/2 years. Perhaps it is also right to tell her that we see hardly any other prospect (except one of the watchmakers?) - and that therefore we would - not of course urge her - but wish her not to dismiss the subject in a hurry without having well weighed her strength and the possible pro's and contra's. These days Robinson is expected here. His uncle Thomas of the Council has one of these days paid a visit to Cockburn's and spoken highly of R.

As for the long correspdce you speak of, I am not very anxious for it. You say M<ögl.>* and Gr<reiner>* are better together. This is to me very doubtful news. M. speaks so of course, he always puts the best colours on things doubtful. But nothing has happened to change the inside. Mglg retracted the letter he had written to the Comm. in defence, saying, he should not have sent it off, if he had heard Gr's declaration that his words had another meaning. Gr is pleased with this. That is all. But what is there in this after the experiences of so many years to justify the hope that things are better already. We will hold fast the hope that they will yet be better, but it is no act of M's that can quickly change or mend them. 
I do not know if the Hallish pills are useful for Paul's complaint. Better he try first for some time Senna powdered with the pulp of Tamarinds and sugar in the way you had them once according to Mrs And's prescription. Let him daily take a slight dose or two till things are in a regular state. It is perhaps useful if he add some powdered sulphur (not from the Bazar, but from the Hospital) for internal use.

Fr Greiner I hear is again gone to Balmatha for the Monsoon - 
The wonderful baby at Dharwar has been weaned without any difficulty. How are you going on, still giving milk? I hope you continue to have little trouble with him.

Mörike came yesterday for a visit here and in the country round about. He is very well and brings on the whole good reports from Kaity Mrs Ir<ion>* will probably appear much better t... her husband than he expected to find her. She has no pain; and even no uneasiness when lying. Sitting I hear incommodates her most. Her children are somewhat troublesome, because she can now no more look so much after them, lying mostly on the couch. But she goes down to the lower house for the meals: and is also more cheerful than at first. Karl has had some diarrhoeas in succession for a month, Christian had a little fever. Helmele is rather rauhborstig according to Mör's description. Within a month if not sooner Mrs Buhler expects her confinement, so he does not leave her any more, as she seems a little nervous with this prospect.

I have nearly done - my time runs off most rapidly. I can do a good deal of work in a day and hope in a fortnight or so to finish the Epistles. (Only the 12 last Chapters of the Romans are still before me) Then I shall D. V. begin the Psalms.

My health is improving - but not so rapidly as the time runs. Still I walked today a long way without oppression on the chest, though in general uphill work tries my breath. - Freddy did not sleep yesterday noon - I asked why - because I wanted to see the ____________ made, which we are to take with us when we go Mamma __________. It is pears cooked for I do not know how many hours and days. He is most cheerful and astonishes Moerike. But we are altogether an astonishing family. Seriously we have every reason to be unceasingly thankful for the way in which we are led. Love to all  Yours HG

