Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<61>* Chiracal 15th <Sept 51>*
 <Monday>*
Dear papa

Yesterday sunday just before leaving Cannanore I received your of the 9th. by this time you will I hope have received the accounts which I have sent off in a great harry as Hebich says he must have it about the 22 of this month. It is also better you should not come down before the end of Oct as this month is very dry it is probable the next will be rainy and wet. Hebich has read yours so he knows about the bill I will to day G.W. seek for the letter about Jenuary

I have no great desire to travel and make journies; still if it is necessary for dear Paul's health I shall go to Mangalore with dear Sophie. Yesterday evening the Dr kept us waiting in the Youngs house till half past five. As the child is better he ordered nothing except a few powders in case his stools be bad again. I keep them by me in case of necessarity: but the diette is still to be stricktly observed. Mrs Cummin has heard from Telli that Mrs Irion is a good deal better since she is at Coimba. Capt Y. has sent you some news paper some days ago.

I do not want any french letters until your return I am in no harry to answer I suppose one of the Brethren there would take charge of one box if you leave one You may also leave all the shirts which you do not require for the journey night and day ones, you have anough here without them Nani might also leave his worm clothes if they are still a little good. West came towards evening on saturday to fetch his people who had spent the day. they are displeased with their agent, he has spent a great deal of money to repair the house at Oti. he had no order to go ask you what remained from their house at Kotirg. He had about three hundert out of which he should have paid Miss Hale for the teaching of the girls; but he has not given her one cash neither to Mr Rig for teaching Richard, they fancy he has spent the money to bild his mill? I have found the letter from Jenuary; but there is not a word about having received any thing from Corcelles. Do not ask to Bale; but only to your papa!

Yesterday we had the Lord sup Hebich thundered terribly against people who had gone to see the races, one of the officer had gone who usually comes to Church Mr Gamfort <Gompertz>* (or wat) he looked rather quite when Heb thundered as well as Mrs B<P>*rescot who came yesterday to chaple to the astonishement of every one. there was also Capt Salby for the first time he is considered as a pious Church man. The Sergent who walks down the soldiers to Chap took the Lord supr too 6 of the Brethren shall have to go to Calli with the Company which is to go there to relieve the other, People speak a good deal against against Connoly as being in part the cause of the disturbance their down by his negligent way of managing every thing. At Anjer one of the Christian has been again beaten by a tier and thrown in a chanal out of which he came out after having been driven by the water a good long way. So H<ebich>* has again written to Con. the people are now in the Cathiry. Amongst the people who are to be baptized here I forgot to mention to you two little girls from Chombala. Manica and Coognipen whom we call Pauline she is a nice child, the first has some thing very dark in her.

Please to pardon this scribble We are all pretty well. I have written you in the account About 20 Rps more as to be received yet for work Now I am not sure to get them before the end of the year so dont write them say 200 and 39 instead of 59.
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert

