Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, Bearing

11 Koterg. 17 Jun 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

It seems you repented of your cruelty very soon and have now given me again a letter of proper size. Many thanks for it. I am glad to have so much from you to send to the children. - And so my dear Vau has been bound with a rope to prevent his running to the rain! I hope he obeys better in future. Of course I think it right if you invite Isabella. - Yesterday I dined at the General's <Gibsone>*, who for the first time had come on Sunday to Buhrers preaching and then introduced himself to me. He was very kind indeed - poor old man, I regretted much not to be able to speak well with him. He seems so sure of going to heaven with his little failings and respectable virtues! Chiefly now since he builds a Church! There was a daughter in law of his present, who hardly spoke. He showed me then his Europe cows bull, sheep horses - you may fancy what an interest I took in all these beauties. Did you know him a little so that I might mention your name to him? - (Your faults? white ans for ants <Timotheus?> - seam for seem - opperer - operer - roap for rope - claver - cle...1 - dayly for daily)

I am glad you are relieved of David's illness, and hope he may now like the Monsoon - in this more like his father than his mother, who always fancies clouds are meant to make the heart heavy and dark! If you were here you would indeed be happy in this daily sunshine though now and then interrupted by some rain.

Yesterday B.<ührer>* showed me a letter from Gr. <Greiner>* in which he relates how he wrote to the Committ. not only about the placing Herm and Kullen but about all Mglg's doings, his housekeeping, litterary and school work etc proposing how it must be changed and rendered unseful for the Mission - otherwise the danger is near, and Herm will be misled by M. etc a whole heap of stories, written so carelessly that his personal dislike of M peeps every where through. It made me very sad. Don't write about it, it is not to be handled farther. But without more humility and abstaining from judging one another, I am afraid we can not hope for a real peace in our Mission to be nearer at hand. I see now Why M. is sad. to me he has not written about it.

But on the other hand I was much refreshed by the judgment of Sir William Burton the Christian Judge in the Supreme Court at Madras. He ordered a Brahman convert's wife to be returned to him, tho' she be permitted to keep her caste as to food etc. You ought to get it from Capt Young. That is a plain and good prospect for Herm. Anandrao when he comes out, to reclaim his wife. Of course the Brahmans blustered and cursed but God will bless this beginning of a new state of things in the administration of this Country.

Sophie heard today from her parents. That Br. Schaffert, who was teacher in the Mission house, brother of the man at Lyons, is dead. He seemed at one time to be in the way of getting Mrs Bühler. Letters from our Papa will soon be in my hands I hope.

Mrs Irion is obliged to lie on the couch, not for any thing new, only the Dr saw her for the first time. I think she would do better to continue the cold water and moderate walking, than thus to keep altogether quiet. But of course if one consults Dr's one must obey them.

Did I tell you that now after all Arthur L<ascelles>* will go home and become a Padre too - like his brother. The Cockbs' are shocked as they consider him a very bad boy. Mr L. is then expected to come up in autumn - otherwise he would prefer going to the Cape, rather than meet his impudent son, who seems to have written awful letters to him. It must be trying to them to find themselves thus deceived in their children after so many good hopes concerning them. I certainly should be glad if Teman could be kept away from you and from the children. You know she has the promise of reception at Tellich. as soon as we can get rid of her - - Every day Freddy comes 2-3 times for __________________ (sugarseed) and for _____________ - what a joy when he can report that _________________, the cover of the pillbox is full of them - then they quickly divide it. About noon he thinks of the fire required in the evening: and asks me ______________________ (= ________) then I mount a dry peachtree and saw a branch off. All three* help to make it into pieces and carry it to the chimney. The way from the Bazar to the house down he ran uninterruptedly - he prefers going downhill to uphill work, quite like his papa! Now farewell peace be with you!  Yours HGdt

