Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

40 Kotergh. 6 Sept 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Thanks for what you sent by Capt Begbie - The breadman of Mr Schnarre (son of the Missionary and baker for the hills) has brought the things to me. So I shall drink the remainder of the oil and hope it may yet contribute to my restoration. I have a very good time since my return from Kaety am much stronger to go uphill, and feel able to speak louder, though I do not give up the old way of lisping.

I thank you for the news about the outbreak at Manj. I had heard of it, but not the very beginning of it. Fritz wrote me that a Court martial will be held, which is expected to be more severe than the former were. I regret the trouble which all this must give to dear Capt Y. but it will not do him more harm than the Lord permits for his benefit.

What has Huber written to Hebich? I have written a long letter to Fritz, to try and bring him to another view than that which he gets through Huber. But the pity is, that what is near to him, has so much a greater influence on him, than what proceeds from friends at a distance. I do not therefore expect that either Heb. or myself will move him much from his present position.

Fritz writes that Vedamuttu professed to be again on good terms with Hebich. Is this the case?

It is indeed a mercy that you have been preserved from all these sicknesses at Cannanore. May God also restore our dear Paul and give you the joy of having for some time at least 3 healthy children about you. We must however think of sending them home sooner or later. My idea is, to trouble Josenhans with one, if not 2, if he accepts it. And I think if it cannot be done by him, some other opportunity will offer, if we are on the look out. The Lord knows what is best for them and he will care for that!

Caldwell from Tinnevelly, and Wardlaw from Bellary - both Missionaries originally of the London Society (though Caldw. has since become a Churchman) have paid us a visit here and stay at Wests' house. Mrs Wardlaw asked after the Lady who is with you and evidently knew of St's design. So at a later visit, when she asked me more directly, I told her how matters stand and that nothing can be done in a hurry, but that we of course do not prejudice Miss K. against the change, if God should thus direct her mind. She then told me how anxious she is to have somebody to look after the girls and women at Bellary. They have a boarding school of about 20 girls, Tamil and some Canarese, they had day schools with about 80 attending there was also a adult school begun, for reading and working, the latter discontinued when Mrs Wardl. left. But the other schools are kept up by a faithful Eastindian woman. They all should like much to see St married and his wife in charge of these and other branches of work. They are of course never so entirely occupied with the children, as is the case at Chiracal. Superintendence is the thing chiefly required - you may tell this, that Miss K. do not think her health and strength would be charged beyond her ability, on the contrary, it might prove a relief as to the real amount of labour that would fall to her lot. Mrs W. is very amiable and they both love Stanger, who they say likes a little his own ways, but serves the Lord diligently in them. They chiefly like his continual desire to travel and talk to those without. But I do not think that the Wardlaws will soon be able to return he looks like one whose constitution is very much shaken The other Miss[ionar]y Lady Mrs Coles died some months ago. That John lives with Strange and is a little estranged from the Missionaries, I mentioned before I think. Str. stands in no intimacy with the Missionaries. Mögl writes as it were with new spirits of life. Hoch showed me some of his Pauline's letters, which are very nice - esp. what her own mother writes in them - full of faith. What said Heb. about Hoffmann's letter. It sounds very melancholy. Bühl says that Josenh. said at the anniversary he goes to India chiefly also on account of the quarrel which 4 have against 22, and that if there be no other way, those 4 will be dismissed. I do not know if it was spoken in this way Certainly it does not please me. Numbers are a ticklish affair and I at least would not undertake to define who is on this side and who on the other. May the Lord make all of one mind! His spirit alone can do it. With constant love to you and the little ones etc
 Yours HG

I see Nanni wrote about Fred. so I may spare it. he is very happy today 
