Revd H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

<14>* Chiracal 6me Avril <51>*
 <Sunday>*
Cher papa.

Aujourd'hui je ne tenvoye qu'une petite lettre; n'ayant pas grand chose … dire, je ne veux pas toute fois retarder d'un jour. J'ai a faire mes adieu … la chŠre Aline. Je ne trouve point facile de m'en s‚parer. Elle est une ame vraiment b‚nie qui connait le Seigneur d'une diff‚rente maniŠre de la plus part de nos chr‚tiens. J'ai eu avec elle un bon moment d'entretien et de priŠre, me s‚parer de Ruth est bien diff‚rent; comme je pense que nous aurons une pr‚dication particuliŠre pour le mariage de ces deux Catechists je vais aller … Can. encore que ce ne soit pas mon tour. Paul me voyant ‚crire vient dire Vau will write to papa that yesterday he had the machel, and to day saturday again _______ Vau is disobidient and obstinate and _______ he must have. Joseph has not yet finished his business with his children Hebich had a long talk with them on thursday; but they seem to persevere to have them at Telli. In speaking with them I found that they do not have real communion with some of Hebick's people: and I told H that I believe his people to be in the wrong with Joseph chiefly Gnianamutu. H will try to bring this to a better condition. H tells to J. that in taking his children at T he cuts himself more and more from the fellowship of the church. These two having gone of course Nani would by and by do the same with Gidion, if you write any thing about this do it saparatly H reads all your letters to me. Francis say that the children are better taken care at T<ell>* than at Tah‚, learn better, besides that, the place is more healthy, this last reason only they tell to Hebich. I anderstand that they fear to put their children there so many little ones have died past year! Well if they persevere to have them there I shall wonder at the strength of Joseph to go so far against Hebich.

All is here as usual. Women a little better chiefly since I told Teman that she can go with her two children if she choose, she thought we would bear any thing rather than give her Rosine She has been perfectly quiet since I said, "go now with your two I will even give you some pice to get rid of you Uniama is pretty well too

We are all well and send you love, kisses to F
 Yours affly J. Gundert

