33 Koterg 17 Aug 51
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

On the 16th I got yours of the 11th, for which many thanks. You see I have given up the idea of going to Salem. You have then be grieved or alarmed to no purpose. - Your news about Capt C. etc are all very interesting. Voyons! - For Epilepsy I gave very small doses of Nitrate of silver, which must however be well weighed - you best get a dresser or Dr to prescribe and prepare it. Haldwell has not yet arrived. - West's house here was occupied for some time by a gentleman from Bombay, from whom I got 22 Rs, so I can pay his servant and he need not pay you my advances. - I suppose Heb's visit to Anj. has delayed the homeletters: for which I am still waiting. This makes me send you only half of Mrs Weigle's letter as the other is to go probably tomorrow when Papa's letter will be returned to you. Of the Begbie's or Fitzg's I heard nothing. Col Coffin was to have arrived at Ottac. yesterday. He brings a comforter or whatever they call it from Mrs Weigle to Frederick. They liked Coff. much and want me soon to pay a visit to him. Voyons! - 14th June Thursday 1 oclock in the afternoon Mrs Bühler got a little girl - they say after 39 hours of pain, but I doubt this reckoning - She will probably be called after the mother. Buhrer will go over tomorrow and spend also some time at Ottac. He had yesterday a long talk with Mrs Cockb about her favourite election doctrine - she would by no means allow that Christ died for all and made strange havock of many doctrines - f.i. "Why then baptize children, if so many have no interest in Christ?" Oh but you know, baptism is a mere form etc - I heard a word from her about you - when a year ago Mrs Buhr. told her you would be confined - she said what? already the 2d child since she came from the hills? "Yes the 2d" Then write to her immediately to say, that she has no conscience. Such nonsense she says plenty in a day, when she has visitors for she does not mind what she says. Lascelles is reported to be very much suffering from giddiness of the head. He seems to think of coming to the hills and will perhaps buy the General's house (Bishopstoke). - Today you have had the Lord's supper, as Heb. announced to me beforehand. I hope you had a good time of it, and that the visit he purposes to make at Tell. and Chomb. may be of use to all whom it concerns. I hope he got my letter about the Conference matters before he left Cannanore. - Nanni is making little cages, palankins etc to the children. Fred is very careful of all he thus makes for him. It must all at last be taken ________________ - the other day Mrs B. asked shall we go to Mangal when he at once demanded his velvet coat. Every Sunday he sleeps about noon, on account of the English service which prevents his walking about in the house. He is very fond now of playing outside and sometimes outruns even Gottlob. - Hochst. wrote to his daughter that a bride more is to come, he forgot for whom, I supposed it must be for Würth as he is the only one who could make such a wonderful secret of it. Perhaps you have heard of these things from Miss LaRoche or some other Basle correspondent? 
Now farewell. Give my love to Hebich Miss K. and kisses to dear Vau and David. I shall not come for the latter's birthday, but probably soon after it! May peace and grace be multiplied to you and
 Yours HG

