Rev H. Gundert, Kotirgherry

 <29 Juny>1
<40>* Chiracal <2 July>1 <51>*
 <2 Juni>2

Dear papa

I have just returned from Cannanore where I have heard a wonderfull sermon. The first speach that is to say before the text was in reference of a letter just recieved from Cpt Biset who wishes to preach Jesus to poor siners he is very nice and askes Hebich what to do, Heb. in relating his honorable d‚sire, said "some people will be something and do great things of these God does not want; Some people cannot see their nose and therefore are led by the nose take care that you see your nose; you will think this is a very curious speach; but it is said to be so led away by the nose, how much you have understood what I mean to say I do not know." Many other similar things were said too. Now is coming the nice part, having red the pr‚face of the 57 pslms he said amongst many other things "there David in a cave, what for? to be prepared for the work of God. that is the way God uses with those he will use in his work, he pull them on the right and on the left, in a cave they must be of whatever kind it may be - from furnaise to furnaise they must be tried." When he came to the 4th verse he asked "do you know what are those spears and arrows, and sharp sword? Now 7 years I have understood them Do you search yourself and see if you do not some of you use still such a sharp sword against the faithful of the Lord. And when such spears, sharp sword are used against us what have we to do! Wait upon the Lord hide ourselves under the shadow of his wings until the calamity be past. Some people will be great and fancy to understand every thing when they have put their nose in some books they can no more see it so to have put it in these books, make them propre and fit to preach about and do every thing"

Brown has not told at Anjercandy any things of the Coll.s order; still Hebich say it will come by and by. The Taselda is accused to have recieved briberies so he has to go continually to and fro to Tell. before Jat*____1 when this is over the Anjercandy people shall have to appear Jacob sais. The tomtom has been heard all over Can. to forbid the Maplas to do any thing to the Padris and to all Christians

Teman came again 7 days ago and before she came near the house I send Josephe to tell her we could not have her after many questions she said well I go ask Mr Irion a note to assertain you that they give me no rice. This morning as Miss was reading me something in french I said do not pronounce sans as it was son, then she said I have heard this bad prononciation with Mrs M. when you were at home as I had much trouble to pronounce after her I said Mrs G has taught me so, than Mrs M said Oh she did not know it herself. She had not been in a good school I have been in one of the best school, so you must repeat as myself

In your last you say you have been 4 days without letters; but it is true that I have usually been once in the week 4 days with out writting, managing so to write 2ice in one week. I have sent monday my little parcel to Irion Cpt Young would have been glad to send you some Scotch papers; but as Irion said only a small paquet I was afraid to charge him. I may send them by the Begbies what do say? They do not know as yet when they will leave his time is over; but as the weather is not sure it is not decided when they go.

Mr Hebich has just brought these letters this evening monday. he would have sent it you; but he does not know when because he has not only much to do; but is waiting for more letters from where I dont know, he sends you much love Marie has read the letter for herself H gave it her. I have now to write to Mrs Halliday who has asked me to have Mrs Gallwey recieved at Telli in her way to Quilon her husband has died of the cholera she is in distresse and goes to her mother there he has prevented her to hear H. while they were here.
 Adieu yours aff J. Gundert

Tu serais ‚ton‚ de voir quelles ecritures Miss et moi mˆme avons, 4 lettres … la fois pour la post Mmes Halliday, Gallwey, Muller et la tienne avant tout

Nos enfans sont bien David imite son frere dans ses chansons. Cpt Y. l'appelle Bishop, il lui ressemble dit il
