Rev H. Gundert, Calicut, pad

<63>* Chiracal 27th Sept <51>*
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa

I hope I am still in time to reach you at Calicut I have not yet heard of your having left the hills. Dear Vau sings every day Apa, Etty, Nani aming Apa walk with Vau in Arden Apa now ome Etty Vandy Vau give.

If you could bring six or 8 red mats with you I would be very glad, if you also meet a narrow one for the cauch it would be well come.

May the Lord bring you safe with many blessings, the one which appear to me the best of all at present is a broken heart and a contrite spirit Oh for this precious gift and a heart which trembles at God's word, for more knowledge of self unworthiness!

You have not said whether the Buhrers are coming with you. What joy Etty has I suppose to return home.

The day of Baptisem was nice indeed 68 souls bap. and two admited in the church of God. Johanna and Minna. Our gardner is called Samuel, his mother Priscila, wife Hanna The people from Anjercandy the people were very nice many asked after you and send you Salams Amongst the Baptized was a deaf and dumb; who when asked by Hebich previously why he would be baptized streched his arms as to show the cross, and looked to heaven, Colnel Prescott with his lady came not the Hutsons Dr Magrath looked very happy, Ruth, Susana, Caroline who have been admited to the Lord supper are nice specially the two first. The little Paulina too is a fine supperior child. I mean Cooniapen from Chombala niece of Paul. You will perhaps see her mother in passing in Chombala. I just receive you last from the hills telling you have left the 22d still I hope this will find you at Coti

Now farewell. You have not received my last in which was one from Mrs Keg 
Now Adieu, soon adieu by lips no pen all wellcome you from far  Yours aff
 J Gundert

