 <Kotergiri 20 Juni 1851??>*

My dear Brother1 <Revd. Addis>*

I take the liberty of addressing you at once, as if I was an old acquaintance, on a subject which lies equally near to our hearts. It is about the work of our Lord at Palghaut. We Missionaries had repeatedly had our attention drawn to that part of the province, from which some stray subjects have occasionally found the way to our stations. Lately Mr Robinson had repeated descriptions and entreaties induced me to pay a visit there: and we have written to our Committee on the subject, they do not see their way clear to begin at once a new station, on account of the financial difficulties, yet respond so far to our recommendation, as to permit for the present our fixing there two Catechists if we see our way clear. - I was somewhat surprized to meet at my visit with a Catechist of yours, having had no information previously on this subject. I heard then from our brethren on the hills, that you were somewhat surprized on your side by hearing rumours of our intention to extend our operations into territory preoccupied by you, without treating first with you on the subject. The reason why I did not address you then, or since that time, lay entirely in the difficulty I had to speak on the subject without any authorisation from our Committee. I intended however to write to you as soon as the first intimation of their views should have arrived. The above is the substance of the answer I received a few days ago <s. 20 Juni 1851>*. - It does not, I confess, quite satisfy my mind. I have been assured of your willingness to welcome us as neighbours in that part, if we were prepared to enter into it. But it seems rather bold, to think of exchanging Catechist for Catechist, when the supervision to be exercised it to come from even a greater distance, than that of Coimbatore. Yet do I venture to ask you for your views on the question. And here I would remark, that our object is not especially the town of Palghat, but just as much the country population around it; Malayalem as well as Tamil. Regular, at least half yearly visits of Missionaries to be each time extended to some weeks are one of the conditions which our Committee make. If in process of time some fruit should be granted by the Lord, they would then think it the right moment for placing a full Missionary among the little flock. A member of our Committee is to pay us a visit in Sept. or Oct. in order to go over all our stations and see the working of some other Missions in the South of India. He will no doubt give himself the pleasure of visiting also Coimbatur. Yet do I not think it right to let the matter entirely rest till then or until I myself might make your personal acquaintance, and have therefore told you how far we are in our thoughts on the subject and what our prospects are. We have not the least inclination to force the matter farther than God will have us to go, and I shall therefore regard the answer which you may honor me with, as a sign from Him either taking from me a care in a wrong direction or urging me on to new exertions for the spread of His name. - Wishing you a rich blessing on the labours of yourself your Son and all your associates  I remain



1The Revd. Dr. Gundert.

My Dear Dr. Gundert.

I am much obliged to you for telling me about Mrs Young, and I will go to her, if the Lord wills, when passing through Cananore. - You did not send me the parcel by your man, - you can send it now. - I trust the Lord may restore your health if it be His Holy will, if not He knows best, and it is a comfort to know He does all in love - In great haste - and with Christian love
 yours most sincerely

Wednesday

