Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

<2>* Sispara 6 March 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

So we are here happily - March 3d landed early at Ariacodu, passed the day in bangalow, rode in the evening to Edawanna, lost the way in the dark walked much, still without injury - got no milk but Fr. was content. 4th March to Vandur - hot wind in the bangalow. Fred cried after Mama - it was a disagreeable day - 5th to Cholecal - we arrived about 9 - Fred. at 11 o'clock, still he was nice - ascent from 2-4 for Mögling till 5 for Gundert, till 6 1/2 for Fred. and Coolies not to Sispara, only to Valcadu. There I passed the night. Mögl reached Sispara and found dinner with Capt. Ouchterlony but he had to walk several miles, the way being topped by a fallen tree, to which he tied his horse, which in the night ran back to us, to seek his lazy horsekeeper. My little fellow could creep through easily. This morning reached Sispara feel much better, quite as if my being sick so long was only an imagination - Fred. sings and likes Nilgis, but wants Kitchan and now and then asks for Mama or Mam. Yesterday night I showed him the stars when he said very seriously "thele Mama all" - I suppose "these are all also at Cheracal" as he was quiet I did not like to ask for his meaning. - Nanni was not permitted to leave him for a moment all these days, today only he is a little more reasonable. He likes the "asisi" also spongecake - makes few chi's* and wishes to go on horseback "this my white horse" but I fear it cannot bear him and me at the same time. So far then all is well, thank God. Today <7 March> - his birthday - he was singing over the hills against the blowing wind. He eats much, says for instance "yes, belly tell, plenty want". He is also content to take what is to be had. Mörike met us today in the Tappalhouse halfway to Avalanche and sends Salam. I send this to the post on my way through. So in haste farewell to all
 Yours HG

