Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

20 Kaity 25 Apr 51
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

I have no letter to answer, but will try to fill a letter with the little things that occur every day. First something which does not occur every day, but which I forgot the last time. Easterday evening Mglg arranged the seeking of _____________, of which the children had spoken already the whole day. When Fr. found his portion of eggs gingerbread and biscuits he was very happy, and 2 days afterwards he sold his gingerbread, which he finds too hot for his mouth to Mr Mörike and got 2 eggs for it. That was a great joy. William had eaten all his portion an hour after he received it. Then on Tuesday (market) Chattu brought plantains from Ottac. Feddy got one in my absence, which made him vomit etc in the night. In consequence he was rather subdued next morning, but when I returned from Ott., he was already up again and in high spirits: for I now roasted a plantain for him in the chimney - and in this shape he both liked them and they seem to agree with him. Today came the first peaches, which I also tried tho' Holloway forbids all vegetables and says "eat plenty beef and mutton" - F. did not like them at first, but afterwards demanded them under the name of apples. 
That I do not forget it, I mention at once that Mrs Lascelles wished very much to get that Nro of the Native Herald (ao 1847 I think) in which the relation of all the transactions in the Supreme Court at Madras concerning that girl converted by the Scotch Missionaries (Mooniatta is her name) is contained. Perhaps Capt Young may still have it, or he may get it from Madras and you or Mrs Young might send it to her with a letter affording to her a handle for farther communications if she wished it. Please mention this at a good opportunity to the Major and excuse my freedom with my incorrigible old nature.

Nath. tells me today that Fr still does not digest very well - it seems that great care is still required to keep his stomach in order. Even the common bread here - which is sometimes sour has made him to vomit his milk. So I take every possible care not to give him any thing bad. Even the toasted plantains did not agree well: the peaches he hardly tasted. With all this he is a good boy, jumps often and seems in play quite like the Irions. He is very rarely cross and never naughty: that is though the others do each other now and then some mischief and to Fr. too, he never does any thing of the kind, nor does he admire it in his friend Christian. I really think that he must have suffered severely when he showed such an irremediably bad temper in the low country: for now that he is better, we have not to fight against anything of the kind, tho' in other respects he is not so favourably situated as at home. As for my person I feel indeed very easy but do not remark any striking change in the voice. It seems to demand time. - Mglg came this evening from Ott. he has made some vacation, getting Buhler now and then to do his work, and will use this to go now - Saturday 26th to Koterghiri to see once Mrs Buhrer. Only 2 weeks more and his time on the hills is over. He will then go down along all our stations _... you about the 24th May. The steam letters he had to write have knocked him up a little, as he confesses to feel for some days. I also felt the last day I stayed with him in Ott. because I had to make some calculations about the lettertypes wanted for the new Mangalore press etc all to be sent with the steam letters, and that kept my attention too long on a stretch. I therefore did not stay for the meeting held at Rice's (in Wests' house) to which besides Mglg and Sanderson, also the Winslows etc did come. It was nice he said. John Groves reports of Stanger that he is already quite the man of the station (the cock in the basket as we say) he will be ordained, and as Wardlaw will have to go home from illness (not quite sure) St may soon have the charge of the station. - My horse is not yet sold, but stands at present with the Groves who seem to have a mind to buy it chiefly if it go for nothing. I shall not be difficult in my terms as I want to get rid of it. Mör. has twice again felt his chest, but is on the whole well, and nearly every day out in the villages. I hear that Hanna in Tell. is not well, perhaps near her end. Her grandson on account of his marriage excommunicated from the Roman Church. His wife introduced morning and evening prayers, that promises at least something. Now give my love to Mr Heb. Miss K. and the people young and old, but chiefly kiss to Vau and David  Yours HG

