Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

18 Koterg. 7/8 July 51
 <Mond./Tuesd.>*
My dear wife

What shall I write, having no letter from you? I really have very little. I will at least send you some Violets though I fear they will have lost their smell before they arrive at Chiracal.

I hear Bösinger is sent home by Foulis or at least ordered away from the Coast!

Mrs Buhrer told me the other day, she dreamt that une amie de vous entendant qu'un certain Stanger souhaitait … la marier, disait trŠs resolument, non je ne veux pas, Nein Ich mag nicht remuant ses deux bras d'une maniere trŠs particuliere et trŠs bien connue et qu'aprŠs tout cela devint une paire. Of course I did not reveal my secret, but laughed much, and then she remembered that I had mentioned St's writing to Mögling about his private affairs - and concluded at once the thing that I wrote to you about. Of course I confessed nothing and looked unconcerned but wondered in my heart whether the dream will come to pass. She told me also that Mrs Graul had told her all she had heard from the same person about sister M. in Chombala: and it seemed to me from this and other little hints that there is more likelihood of her accepting him than I at first could discover. You keep silence I hope until the question be solved, whether he asks for her definitely.

Yesterday we had the Lord's supper for the first time - of course Church of England service and all who would come that is Mr and Mrs Cockburn, also Miss - then Mrs Whistler and Miss Fulton and the Butcher's wife. Besides ourselves. - Nath and Eva ought to have had it, I also spoke with him before hand - but after all we will have it again next Sunday in Tulu. 
We hear that Robinson and his bride are to come to the General's house - he may be here already for all I know. It being a very rainy day I have hardly gone out. I hope it may prove true and that they be of some joy and help to us here.

I never heard if Heb has written to Addis If you do not forget it and give me some notice I shall be glad.

Freddy has one or two afternoons slept irregularly, yesterday he told me that he would now sleep like Gottlob and Christian And really at the time when they lay down he also mounted his berceau (which stands on two little benches made expressly for it to remove it from the ground) and slept two hours, awaking once or twice to search for a bit of toast he had taken along, but sleeping on as soon as it had been found for him. The nights' rest does not on that account suffer any curtailment. When he awakes it is with a face nearly like a fullmoon. It really seems that he is now trying to recover all the sleep he ought to have had in his first years. 
If there is another occasion I have thought farther of what I wish to get. First I should like to have a little Malayalam Psalmbook (but it is not so very necessary, as I may get it also - in the large edition - from Kaety). Then there is perhaps still some Codliveroil left. I might as well finish to drink it. I lately began my bottle just for change - as I do not always like pills and can not well use the syringe because it locally disagrees with me for some months already. But all these only in case an opportunity offers by itself.

That you should have made farther clothes for Frederick is indeed a wonder in mine eyes but to him it will be a proof of your great discernment. - I hear Forsyth is leaving Tellicherry do you hear anything from there. Is Irion gone? How does Hebich with his complaint? - Now I wish you a good July - today it is 15 years we cast anchor before Madras. I must say it seems to me a long time since then. Surely the first half and more of our Indian time is gone: but I hope by God's grace that the latter part tho' less will be better and that we shall praise God in it more abundantly. May the Lord give us a heart for it! I wish you much peace and progress in your work with the girls. Kiss the Children
 Ever yours HGdt

