Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

16 Koterg 1 Jul 1851
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

First then the news that the poor General <Gibson>* has left this world yesterday morning early, he is to be buried tomorrow. Buhrer is to read the service. Nothing particular to mention. Once he looked for some time at Cockburn who spent the last day with him, and said very seriously: Oh Papa! That's the way in which he used to address him. - Your news of Heb. distresses me a little It is very great risk to drive such an eruption inside! He is so strong that he does not quickly learn such a measure of common prudence as I young fellow have already attained to. - So you have had Mrs West. Thanks for your description of the day. You will have more from Mrs Cummin who perhaps is still with you. Give her my Christian regards. - You seem to use the word "failures" like the German "Fehler" for defects - but failure (= faillir) means something like miscarriage. - Never mind the Ladies Committee, if they have something in their mind, let them have it and be thankful that you have it not in yours. They have then still the trouble of getting it out sooner or later, if you persist in not permitting its ingress into yours.

Now something about clothes. Here I am in my element as you easily fancy. There is a kind of blue cloth _________ which all the Tulu women wear (also fisherwomen etc in Malabar have it). Now Mrs B. may have to marry one of her girls to the newly beptized servant at Kaity In that case she would like to have for her two such Cankis, and each ought to be 15 or 12 yards long (______). Ten yards as in Malabar will not do. So it may be you would buy one of 15 one of 12 yards for the first. Mrs B would give at Mangalore about 1 Rup 14 As, for the second 1 Rup 10 As; but you would of course buy as you can get it, in case it can be sent with the Begbies'. Then of course no pickles, as the cloth is heavy. Perhaps you might add 4 yards of the European (?) light blue or flowered? stuff, of which Freddy has some big pinafores, which Mrs B. finds very useful for sparing the clothes. Hereup she can get nothing of the kind. But all this only in case you can conveniently send it, without farther expense to the Begbies.

Weigle writes "that Albrecht has beaten Heb's letter into the wind (that is a German phrase for not minding a thing) and for this purpose blew an extraordinary hurricane against me, who will have heard already." But I have heard nothing. W. continues that he found it not quite easy to take Hebich's part, which yet he did, and beyond his hope he found that also Joh Muller quite agreed with him, that Albr ought to humble himself. Moreover 12 families are to be baptized in Gulada Gudda (by Kies) - to be performed this Sunday (29th June) He <Weigle>* knows the chiefman of them, but not favourably. So that seems a beginning in which one does not know has one to fear more or to rejoice and hope the best. But I cannot as yet fancy that the Bettigh brethren know well to distinguish what is in those people, as long as they are so deceived about their own hearts. His wife had been in Hubli for a fortnight and returned pretty well.

Vau's letters have been most interesting to my self and Freddy. sugar plums ____________________________
___________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________Nanny Nanny ____________________________________ 













Now I hope you are all well, my good David especially, of whose renewed nights' rest I am extremely glad. Dear fellow! what a change I shall see in him at my return. How far greater than you saw in Freddy after a year's separation as his whole development was so very slow. You will now be the more surprized when he comes with his new health, red cheeks (for I hope they will keep during the short journey from Vandur to Cheracal) and his boyish manners. The Nonpareil seeds (Sugarseeds) are now done - he finished them with Gottlb and Christ and asks me to get a new suit from Mögling - and when told he could not send them, he demanded let us go to Mögling. - His stomach decreases now: a likeness of conversion, when the big stomach of selfishness is forced to give something of what it swallowed, to the legs and arms, until there be a healthy action of all the members. - 
Gottlob was ill for 2 days, vomiting and purging. We used baths and other water applications. But he dislikes above all the operation for which himself invented the name of trumpeting. His fear and cry "Nur net trumpeten" is quite ridiculous.

Now farewell to you all. With love from myself and the Bührers  Yours HG

