Rev. H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

<19>* Chiracal 23d April <51.>*
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa,

Tuesday evening, no letter from you as yet; but I hope one for tomorrow. Paul from Chombala has just arrived, he is nice and gives good news of the people at Ch. They like Aline very much Mrs M has made her her school mistriss for 18 women 7 boys and two little girls, Muller has built some houses for his people one for Eunika Timothious wife and for others. She has written that they are all very well and send you love. Joseph has taken his boys to Telli, he is there now.

Dear Vau is much better the iruption though not over is much better and he is merry and happy. Often in a day he comes and askes Miss Kegel to show him the shoes she is making for Etty. he still likes Elisabeth better than all the others it is true that she is exceedingly kind and gentle; she is a very sweet girl. I do like her much more since she is clother to me, she shows perfet obedience and willingness. I have put large Elisa for some days in the cook room for a punishement. Miss K. has written to her comity to day shes has re<a>*d me a part of her letter in which she answers to nomberless questions regarding the women, their work, about the Europeen girls who they are and about Marguereth Will. All there questions had been put forth by Miss La Roch, when, and how I do not know, Marie had a very long letter from her and has returned a very longue one too. 
How Glad would be my Freddy if he could see and taste the pomkin of dear Hebich, and the Mangoes of our own garden; but I hope I may perhaps send him 1 or 2 in the box I but wait for one or two letters from you to send it. I shall not forget Nani for a few worm clothes.

last Friday and sunday we were at Cannanore; but not on monday. West is very attentive to the Begbees and bring always to church in his bandy. The FitzGeralds are said to grow in the Lord. (You will have heard perhaps already that Miss Locher sister of Mrs Anderson who came out with her, has died of the Cholera which is now raging in Madras.

Sophie B.<ührer>* a ecrit … Marie qu'elle serait bien contente de vous avoir … Kotirghe et que depuis longtemps ils t'attendaient pour une visite. {I Vau send love to my dear papa and Etty I am a good boy and do not say any more __________} David is good too some time he does not awak till four o'cl. on the morning. Nehemai just brings yours of 18th Joseph has also returned from Telli, has brought 5 volumes of histoire de dix ans newly bound with Salams from them all, no letter! I hope to send you next time Elisabeth's letter.

All is here as usual. Joseph's wife at Cannanore is still very poorly one think she has a consomption, the baby poorly enough for want of nurrishement

With love from all, and to all
 Yours J. Gundert

