Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<28>* Chiracal 27th May <51>*
 <Tuesday>*
Dear papa

Thanks for yours of the 19th recieved the 24th by the Vandy man. I am glad to hear dear Etty is so well. I hope by this time he has recieved the box. The cooly who took it was from the hills and had his wife with him, but it is likely they waited for each others and they went the Manantody road; You have not seen what kind of hats Moerike and Buhler are wearing Irion and Muller had some bought for them at Ot. Moeg and Weig had some from home but much larger than one can get on the hills. Moeg came Saturday evening to C<ann.>* spoke a little to the congregation in your name as well as in his own. Thanked for the prayers offered in your behalf, they have been said he partly heard and after 12 monthes we shall see them in full unswered when you have returned and can preach to this very place. He as well as yourself would not desire to have been with out sickness neither cannot wish to be cured one houre before the appointed time.

After you have spent 12 month on the hills you will surely be well and though you should be 18 monthes for a perfect recovery it would surely be worse<th>* while staying there; but now for the present let us only speak of a year; You will soon be so well acquented at Kotirg. and find yourself at home with the dear Buhrers that it will but appear as a short time to you. Moeg will leave Can tuesday at noon and Chiracal twards evening. He will have preached on sunday evening. He looks very nicely. When I told that Chistian B. ressemble our Vau he said "no not at all he is his father picture: and Gottlob is some what like V. dear V had great trouble to come close to M. a bottle of honny, a pineapple were presented to him by M. but he did not want any thing, only after a while V observed his fine whip which had been given him by Mrs Hodges then he said this I want so poor Mg. had to part with his whip to please V. and receive a kiss from him. Hebich has paid your dept to Bombay! As regarding the 94th leaving no one knows any thing about it it has been in the papers; but it is not true at least not before the end of the year. Hebich will write to you after Meog has left him. One of his women Ester rather a bad one has died suddenly. She did eat a great deal of Chaka which she had to vomit, and a few hours afterward she was no more.

David crawls about not on his tambac as V did; but on his hands and knees and he goes very fast. The monsoon seems to be very near but Moeg has said no no it comes only Saturday evening after I have arrived at Mg. Mrs Cummin has arrived saturday ev. she looks very happy and affectionate. We leave now to her and Mrs Y. the charge of the prayer meeting, and we go to Can on sunday alltogether. All things are here as usual. We have a new big girl cold Ruchemi, her mother and brother are at Tah‚ during the absence of the father a Butlar who has gone some where and has given charge of them to H. untill his return they are Romans, the girl is very ignorent; but willing to learn though at first she said she would not pray like our girls, but tell her alld prayers. Now God be with you Arabella did not write because she is helping Francis who had a cold tell this to Nani
 Yours J Gundert

Nani has written to his wife that Etty does not ask any more for food as he used to do at Kai, because Mrs Buhrer gives him continually bread and butter: this surely must be better for his tambac than potatoes 
