Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

10 Koterg. 14 June 51
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

I received yours of the 8th yesterday - and hope David is better by this time. The monsoon is something altogether new to his Constitution. But dear Vau will be the more happy since he can run into the rain: and I hope he may entirely recover his strength now the heat is over for some months. 
I am rather glad to see that you think me too much inclined to letterwriting and I will immediately act upon your hint and shorten my letters. It is however a new doctrine to me, that being born in a village makes one unable to give news. If you would have the kindness to consider that some 80 persons are surrounding you, in all of whom we both take equal interest, whilst I am living with 8, you would not think it wonderful, that I am sometimes in want of subjects for writing and therefore make some effort to get a story out of any thing. I have been far from censuring your mode of writing, it has given me often good information and I am thankful, that you have so far overcome your dislike to the pen. Why now begin the old story with all that show of humility! But perhaps your thoughts were with David, and being the best nurse of the world you could not but devote your time to him. This is certainly for me no reason to complain.

Today I got letters from Kaety, also that long story of Kies, which acts like warm water on the stomach! The Committee meeting is to end the 18th. Mrs Ir. had overworked herself in assisting Mrs B (who had been afraid of a miscarriage) now they are both in a better state of health. Mglg seems to have felt his reception at Mangalore as rather cool, and complained to somebody about Würth especially. Mör. is to visit us next week. He wishes me to salute you. Tomorrow they have a great ordination at Ooty to which Beuttler, the German brother from Trichoor has arrived. I had hoped he would see us, as he is also a Malayal brother, but he has left his wife sick at Coimbatoor and will return at once. The Brethren at Kaity thought him a very nice Clergyman, a polite English gentleman, yet hearty and brotherly.

Fred. is reminding me every day of the firewood required for the evening. I generally saw off a dry branch and he helps me to break it and carries the pieces to the Chimney. When Nath. kindles it whilst he is still at tea, he chides him for it, for he is very fond of the fireside. He collects also Peachstones for ________ and eats the grapes and sugar you sent with the 2 others in very small quantities. They understand each other perfectly in some language or other. Gottlob imitates every thing, even his mother's singing very successfully. Now farewell: with love to all
 Yours HGdt

Mrs Buhr wishes to keep your little lace basket. She has had the arms of Fred's coat (the flannel ones sent lately) lengthened with a piece she begged from Mrs Cockb.

