Rev. H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

 Chiracal 30th April 1851
<21>* <Wednesday>*

Dear papa.

I have to thank for two letters one of the 21 first which I recieved in Hebich's house were I was for the prayer meeting. I could then buy the flanel for Mr Mer. 5 y of the gray 10 1/2 yrds of the white the whole 17 Rps 8 ans, for the box of arrowroot I have written the same day to Jane Muller who will I hope dispatch it tomorrow. to day your box has left this place Miss gives you the list of its contains I have been waiting for the Kerala Utpati on leaves and after all I can not get it as yet, the Rajah will send for it to an other place perhaps I may send it by and by through Banghy. Mr Hebich has sent 5 pairs of shoes one with your name under, I have put tapes to them the other 4 are for Metz and Mer. I suppose; It just hapened that they arrived yesterday. 2 pairs I could not put in to the box being already too heavy; I have there fore said that the cooly for arrow. shall take them and promised him 8 ans more. Your own cooly has taken them let the Brethren pay him 1/2 Rpe. In my next I shall let you know how much advence has been given. For the present be so kind as to write a note to Mrs Hodges to whom the boxes are addressed; for I was afraid Mogling may have left when they arrive. if M is still there she may send them to him if not she shall direct them where you are. I could not put play things for Dear F. having no room. Your second of 25th I have now recieved, I am sorry to hear dear F. is not so well, could you not get him biscuits instead of bread Mrs Hodges or Groves would get you common plain beskets without any sour stuff, this would be much better for him and even for yourself. Nani has written here that next month you are going to Koter. it would then be tomorrow? If so my love to dear Sophie. I shall soon write to her! Your commission to the Youngs I shall not forget. I expet her here one of these days with the Begbees You have for yourself one of the Jaquet my sister did send to Hebich, bring it back when you return, we will want it to make larger the two of H. this I mention only that you do not leave it there! Vau is much better though the irruption is going on it is much milder, he sleeps very well and is happy, talks plenty; makes us to laugh a good deal. the king David is also verry merry always ready to eat large pieces of bread, drink milk, cangie, plantains, tumblers of water, he never let the girls to eat their rice canjee without having his portion, he has the same irruption as Vau I am afraid he has got it from him on his face; but he does not make much much of it, he is wash dayly twice well rubbed with soap, his brother bears it well too.

One does not know wether poor Anna at Tellecherry has any repentance she cannot speak at all; Joseph saw her, the swelling is chiefly round the throat. I hope dear Freddy will like his macaroni {I Vau send a kiss to papa to Etty I good boy I like Arge gooss to eat every day I ask for a arge goos and arge omai to Hebich he gives me every sunday a arge omhoi (pomme grenette) and Apam I will keep some for my Etty when he come Now I must conclude thursday morning Mr H has come for breakfaste. You might buy while you are there a Italienish gray hot for you and for Feddy!}

If you cannot get biskets for F he should get some canjee made of rolon*, or arrowroot, or rice, for the evening!

Your cooly has taken the shoes 2 pairs for Mr Metz his wife who went with him shall recieve 8 ans for this parcel, he has recieved 2 Rps ad and two more shall be given to him when he come there, the kee of the box is in a peace of cloth sown under the leather girdle which ties the box. In the box is a small basket containing Lace with a note to Mrs Hodges look at it please and send it to her when opportunity occurs. I am sorry I could not send what Mrs I askes; Irion sent me words by Joseph that he had a cooly to send and I should let him know when I would send, that the two coolies might go together, when our man went there he said that on wednesday I would send off, then I. said I cannot dispatch mine on that day he must wait till Friday or saturday. As he did not write a line to me about it I did not wait; but thought he may manage with the cooly of arrowroot and mentioned it to Jane; but I have not heard any thing about it 
Now farewell
 yours J. Gundert

{Vau will also _______ to papa and thank}

