Mrs Gundert, per adr. Rev. A Bührer, Mangalore, pd

4 Chir. 27 Oct 51

My dear wife

Here the letter from Mrs Hayes. Her account (in pencil) stands as you see argent prˆt‚ 29.. by the margin please therefore so to write to 2 dentelles___3.1.2 1/2 her and send it thro' me. I hope she will give bas chaussons-4 - - at last what she owes. But do not repeat again robes ________1 - - that you will make a present to her of the bas __________2 -2. 5 things, only repeat what you have in her hand_____________39.3.7 1/2 writing. - Fred and Dav were at Church yesterday and behaved well. Both have however still little colds, which do not prevent David from being happy and full of jokes. - C Müller is today with me. He accompanied me this morning after I had heard yesterday his evening sermon. - The Cooly of Heb is said to have seen him on the jungadam near Mangalore and you at Coombla. Can it be? then you would have arrived at Mngl. on Saturday. Soon I shall hear all this. I am myself very well indeed. - Joseph tries to do his best with the girls. But I have no news to report. Robinson to act for Chatfield the next 3 months, is good news. Chatfd to act for Morris at Calicut. The day before Barnabas died Jacb put many questions, and he answered very composedly he liked to leave this world of sin to be with Jesus. He was very calm and collected but did not speak much at last. Love from Missy to you and Vau, also from Eddy - the Lord be with you
 Yours affly HGdt

Selams from C M and he wishes you plenty of joy and improvemnt of health 
