Revd H. Gundert, Ootacamund, Kaity, paid

<9>* Chiracal 23 March 51
 <Sunday>*
Dear papa.

In yours of the 14th you asked who is Adam. Freddy would have told it you for he and Paul cannot say Gidion; but Adam. Saturday Jacob is taking the book mentioned to the Raja. Is there any thing in your drowers I could send you as you say you have forgotten in them what you should answer now? This morning saturday <22d>* Nehemia brought me yours of the 17th for which many thanks. I shall be glad to see Mrs Lascelles. In speaking of Mrs. Hewson I did not mean to say that any thing serious was in her merely what she appears in nature. My pein of the throat is nothing like yours. I wish yours maigt be of as little consequence as mine, it is merely the nerves which are irritated; formerly it was my stomac now it is in my throat. I am again nearly well and would be quite well if Maria's death had not happen in such a manner.

The next morning of the death Tema was so bad that she floged her head with the _________ After that as she had and has still much peine in her head and neck she is somewhat subdued and has began to eat a littl, But what do you think? Coogni cooly told to Francis I shall also die in the tank as F. rebuqued her to talk in such way, she said "Madam shows much kindness to Tema because she is afraid she will thro herself in the tank" therefore said F. you wish to frighten the people that they may be very kind to you. When I heard it I regretted to have nither you nor Hebich to give her a sound floge for I believe it would have been the right remedy for her. I shoed her my indignation and desire to see her severely punished, she was rather ashamed afterwards. What a differance betwen her and her little sister Lea this last is so nice, her prayers truly fines, she espacialy remember sister and pray so adaptly to her state that I wonder every time I hear her, she praises God to have brought her here where she has not only food and reament; but above all that she can learn of God and his son! she is a dear child.

Missy appears to have been much affected through M. death she is very nice and longs for more life and faithfulness. May God work on those who are still so dead and selfrightious. Paul is well, sings very often, preaches longer than ever, his prayers have also the addition of some names such as Elisa, Abi, Mimi, now and then Megin, to day he told Miss Kegel "arge ______" to whom asked she? "ni" who shall give it? I, said he very serious, when he does some what bad we say _______________ Pauly! then he say _______________________ Vau ood ni Apa _______ coucoom*. Thursday H. floged Ruth's child than poor Vau began to tramble and would quickly be taken out of the room. David does not know any thing of all these troubles, he laughs at every body, he is well, the pox has taken well it is now nearly over, he has a great delight to have a piece of bread in his mouth, whenever he sees any one eating he asks for food, he stands on his feet very long time. I am glad you have bought a cambly for Nani, you will give him 4 four Rps a month; he cannot get his food less than 3 at least Mrs Greiner's girls with 2 meals only were 6 Rps a month. Arab eats with our women, she is quite content and is nice as well as Gidion whom Paul calls Keta Adam. __________ desires her special Salams to you, she is very nice since her sickness, the other day Miss K had accused her rather hard regarding soalt, she became angry and said I do not want food since I am accused to robb soalt. after she showed much repentance and greef to have murmered and prayed very fine 
Now I must conclude to go to Can. and give this to Coognian with love from all to all
 Yours aff J Gundert


1Je viens de recevoir une note de Mme Muller … Chumbala regardant la petite Rachelle. C'est v‚ritablement honteux l'esprit qui domine l… En voici la copie "Nous somme fach‚s d'entendre l'histoire de Rachelle peut ˆtre vous ˆtes trop bonne envers elle, comme elle est encore bien jeune. Si vous vouliez la punir peut ˆtre elle serait tranquille, mais si vous trouvez bien vous pouvez l'envoyer. Nous sommes fach‚s envoyer* <pas> sa mŠre pour la voir, acause des autres femmes qui alors venait demander la mˆme permission: mon mari n'aime pas cette chemin comme cela donnerait une petite r‚volution dans toutes les affaires de la station et de leurs familles a cause des maris et des affaires."

En outre elle te salue avec Feddy. Irion auquel Joseph a ‚crit regardant ses gar‡ons lui a r‚pondu qu'il sen chargera avec plaisir. Nous le laisserons donc aller lundi emmener les fils … Telli. Hebich viendra d'Anjercandi ici pour le d‚jeun‚. Adieu!

