Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<35>* Chiracal 18th1 June <51.>*
 <Wednesday>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of the 11th recieved this morning 17th In deed you must have a great deal of patience with all my mistakes and repeated failures If only there was hope for me to get better and learn! I am indeed very sorry to be so stupid, and I thank you for having showed me the words. In writing pleinitude I was doubtful; but still went on. And what shall I say about letters reading. In deed I am guilty. The day they came I had put them in my basket with the intent to have them translated; Mr Muller was just here with Hebich: who reprouved me to have those letters so openly before Muller. As he did not go to hear H's preaching, Hebich thought that perhaps Muller had taken them out of the work basket during the preaching; well such scrupuls of Hebich made me so fearful that I had nothing read to me but the letters of our two boys. now you have the whole truth! by and by I thought that I would get out from Hebich or Moegling who was here some what of those letters; but they were alway so very occupied that I could not get any thing except in hurry. Hebich said Oh Marie <Gdt>* has said in reference of a letter sent from India that the black children or all children are as bad here as at home for one of her brothers has had a flogging so he must be as bad as others at home. Now do not be angry with me, if I know nothing of Ernst's letter; but accept my sincere thanks for what you say about Deacons etc* I am rejoiced at it Marie and I knew nothing of it. Since you have left news are very rare here You know yourself that Mr Hebich is not much more after them than meself: when the Ygs come our conversation does not extent beyond our sphere of business or the circle of the Church of Can. Apropos Duncon shall probably not be recieved in any Rt. he does not know what to do, his wife had a miscarrage, he is living with a backslider at Bangalore. I do not know what is becoming the complaint of Hebich regarding the Maplas I shall ask Hebich next time. He speaks very little of his new married people, they seem to be well: except Henry they whole eat together in family that is to say every one has separetly his hot water the morning for so they call their black coffy, then dinar and supper alltogether. The sick people are better at the exception of Elise who is very weak and according all appearance near her end. You will have heard that the Monsoon com. on the 4th June. we have had much rain and wind now it is fine weather for some days. David's complaint is not yet quiete over he has diarrh‚e and coughs; but he is chearful and happy only at night there is no end of drinking. Paul is well, a famous appetite too. I was rather afraid he would get a bad finger, it was gathering round the nail of the right thumb and he complained of pain. I had it put in boilling water according to my grandmother's fation and I hope it is stoped. Mr Hebich consulted the Dr about his irruption who said it was no itch; but bad blood, now it looks pretty much like what our children had, he washes and drinks the herb root called sasaperula (nanari) he also takes care of his food soup is his chief nurrishement. Saturday a new girl came ____________ 4 years ago she had already run away from Hebich school at Tah‚ she is about 14 years a very bad look she has run away now from her mother at Cannanore her father is Butler at the messhouse she promises to be good and till now is rather obedient I have written her name as well as the other in the book.

Paul is good sings continually is it death, all is well even in eating he sings he repeats every thing he hears, talks the whole day now with love to all
 Yours J. Gundert

Temen has returned to Tellich. were she will remain I hope

