Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

5 Kot 31 May 1851
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Again 4 days without receiving a letter, but I will not like the last time wait so long, though I confess I thought for a moment to confine myself to giving letter for letter. However I must make it short, because I have no subjects to write on, such as a letter from you might furnish me with. One news I heard thro' the newspaper, that an other 400 Seapoys huts have been burnt. Strange that such an accident should happen 3 times in one season. Connected with Cannanore is also the news that a Lady from here Miss Fulton is going in a month or so to be married to Capt Eades if I understood it rightly. If therefore you want anything from here let me know and I shall try to send it, perhaps one of the 27 trowsers of Freddy (besides nightdrawers) a sort of dowry which quite astonishes Mrs Buhler. You know she is a great hand in arranging things, I therefore allow her the pleasure once a week to rearrange all my boxes and things, besides Freddy's. This I am sure makes me doubly valuable to her. She does not hear well on one ear, so I must on my walks with her take the proper side in order to make myself understood with whispering. I am often walking with her and the children, because B. likes quicker work than we can share with him. - Freddy is generally running before us, it is quite delightful to see him for instance run after his arge shadow to catch it. He also talks repeatedly German "sondelbal" "gib mel au, Mama" etc and imitates my joking about cutting off from his stomach and filling the remaining little bags in his hands and feet. His face becomes much more boylike and he issues frequently stern commands to the 2 others. But when one knocks him he generally weeps aloud. The same whenever Nanni goes away without his leave to do household work. Yet is he considered a nice fellow by Mrs B. and she is glad that she finds him so much better than description painted him.

Yesterday Metz came from an excursion into the country and he will stay a week. He made a sort of supper on your gingerpreserve. It would be a pity if Freddy's heart did cleave to it. Feddy prefers butter and "satz bod" - - In Kaety they had a Picnic, some 90 persons passed the day in the little wood, a Colonel etc with Minchin and other religious people. It seems to have been a grand - but for the soul very poor - affair. I have begun to show your lace hereabouts and believe it is as likely to be taken here as at Otty. Do you not intend to write to Jette or the children. It seems an age since you did, except you sent letters direct to Basle or elsewhere (?) Now farewell with love to all, esp my Vau and David
 Yours HG

