Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

3 Kot 23. May 51
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

This noon I sent again to the postoffice as soon as I heard the postman running down from the Bazar with his ringstaff* - and received yours of the marriage Sunday. I am glad you and Heb. have now got over this piece of work May the Lord work according to his grace in the 3 new pairs, that the matter remain not altogether earthly, as it looks with nearly all of them to this day. Eliza must have been not a little surprized that after all her marriage came off the quickest of these 5 or 6. Do you also note the new girls (f.i. Manicam came 14 Febr - none since?) and the going off of the old ones? - You would send me Mrs Groves' letter if it was worse? I can understand why one does not send bad letters, but how the circumstance of a letter being worse can again recommend it for farther communication, this looks like a riddle to me. Or did you think of worth? I remember you wished me once to become cloth to (or with) Mr Gr. He would have found me rather heavy to wear even on a cold day. Now you may exchange the former th for the se of today. - When you answer her letter send it to me, that I may also send one along with it, to him, lest he be annoyed with my long silence. I indeed wrote to him the last letter, but he paid me the last visit. - If Mglg should be with you tell him with my love, that Gottfried wishes those Sanscrit papers to be copied for him and then sent to Bangalore (not to Dharwar). The Anjerc. list comes a month too late: so Mglg will hardly wish it any more. - Hochstetter writes of Layer that he likes him much: but he is displeased with Mrs L because she dresses so smartly that even good people are startled and some say they won't give any more to the Mission. I am sorry he does not take notice of such a stumbling block. It would do you good to see Eddy riding on a stick before the whole Company during a whole evening walk: or jumping in the Veranda with his companions. Here he has been at home in a moment. Also I feel the change truly beneficial. Now love to all and grace and peace from above!
 Yours HG

