Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<54a.>* Chiracal 19th August <51.>*
 <Tuesday>*
Dear papa.

Yesterday Mr Hebich gave me your long Epistle which was enclosed in his own letter thank for it. I did not know the mother of PW had left this world, it will be a severe trial for the two sisters at home. I thought according to the firsts description regarding Mrs Irion she had much pain; but as you said yesterday she has neither pain nor descharge what can make people to think she has ulceration in the womb? If she could see The Apothicary Holdwell She might understand her complaint very well I think. I have much confidence in him, more than I could have to a Dr When I persisted to tell him that I had most surely a bad sickness (as I thought,) he smiled and said it is a cold or your nerves, this he did after having assertained with nomberless questions how I was and felt. Mrs I being a very nerveus woman makes perhaps more of it than it is.

I am glad Mrs B. was pleased with the fan or rather the screen. I am sorry to hear what my Eddy is so selfish as not to give willingly his sugar to his fellow play boys. When he comes here he will find one who like him does not like to give anything, the moment he sees his brother David ascending the horse he runs to pull him down, if he touches the whip, et* pulls it out of his hands with all his might. What will they than do together with Eddy. Saturdy I have began to put them in a wet sheet both at one time they were so pleased to feel the wet sheet laughed heartly but wen the blanket came it was an other story, after a good crying they went to sleep; It has done them good and I will go on for* a time. I am inclined to wean D. but that will be a business! Hebich has gone to Telli with all his people. on sunday he gave baptisem to Israel's mother and the Lord supper to both as they are it appears on the point of death. Nahomi is very much greeved about them. Miss Keg thanks you for your explanation of the words required Mrs Greiner has written to Mary that they have much fever in the school and amongst the people. Praise to God who has kept us here without any sickness. Hagar complains of pain in her legs, but she has not yet learn to be thankful for the mercis of God.

Time runs very fast. October will soon be tomorrow. I just recieve yours of the 14th for which many thanks, it has come very quick. In a next I shall tell you what says Marie. Now farewell
 Yours J. Gundert

