Rev S. Hebich, for Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

13 Koterg 24 Jun 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

I have been rather long without letter, and have therefore nothing to answer. But I will try to keep the 3d day as long as there is no positive inability to write. - From Saturday 21 till Monday 23d Mörike was with us on visit. He reports of Mrs Irion that it was the Dr's visit and intimation of her getting perhaps a troublesome complaint, that therefore she was to rest much and ought only to write to her husbd to avoid being too much bent forward, what made her really ill, because it dejected her so much. She is now troubled more with these thoughts than there is reason for being: and he it seems it also much cast down. Buhrer1 has done with the Committee and will come today for a visit, after which he will see Mör's place in the Todanad (where he now is) and return with him to Kaety. Buhl and Rice did not get on well together. Sanderson is said to have Mögl's complaints and thinks of going home. In that case he is not likely to help himself in a hurry to a wife hereabouts. Mr Foulkes passed a miserable examination before his ordination. He did not even know the word ____________________. Beuttler on the contrary seems to get on well with learning the language. He related something of Cottayam, where they have also 2 shooting brethren, fonder of the jungle than of the congregation. Perhaps Beuttler comes up again for a few weeks with his wife, in which case I may see him also. - Of the Groves' and Hodges' Mör had to say very little that pleases or rejoices. I am glad I sold your laces here for 23 Rup and something beyond. Mrs Hodges' father died some months ago. The news came just to detain her from a picknick. - Arth Lasc is now decided to go home and become Padre in Sept. He will tell the Bishop who is to ordain him, that he must address him a little differently from the prescribed formula "Receive ye the holy Ghost" - for he has conscientious scruples about this and the Baptismal service. Cockburn related to me yesterday the reason of their quarrel. Lasc. the father was evidently very wrong about it, and now he has the reward of being obliged to avoid his Son, whom he calls Abshalom. But Cockb. thinks that the elder boy, who is now liked in preference by the father, is decidedly worse than Arthur. It was quite pityful to hear it. He Cockb. pleased me by confessing of himself how dangerous a civilian's position is in this country, as they learn to command and have it all their own way before they can controul themselves, that he feels the injury it has done to him to th... day etc. Lasc. evidently is still the old strongheaded selfwilled man: his wife could do nothing to check him, if even she understood to set about it in the right way. They now talk of leaving Honore in all haste and go to the Cape in July. But I do not think the matter is so decided. - The old General fell very sick on Sunday night. I hope he may recover to consider his end before it is too late. His son the Chaplain tho' nice, seems yet much under the law. - Mör tells me that Addis is so afraid of the Church taking Palgh. that he will seize with both hands any prospect of getting a less formidable neighbour. - The barracks will be decidedly built between Cunnur and Ottacamund, and 3 Comp's of Europeans will come up soon to help in the building. Every one is sorry of the prospect of having soldiers up here - There is nothing to be said of myself and Freddy, we are going on nicely. Mrs Bührer is I think quite strong. It does not seem that she is expected to help at Mrs Buhl's confinement in August. Now farewell. May the Lord assist you in all your work with the children and women! Love to all
 Yours HG

