Revd H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

<15>* April 8th <1851>*
 <Tuesday>*
Dear papa.

I think I have already acknowledged your two last which came on saturday the one of 27 and first Ap. I thank you for the news you give of your ownself I hope you will soon be able to tell more. Last week the little girl of Obrien was bitten by their own dog which had been bitten before by a mad dog, they were very much alarmed, and after some time were quiet submitted to the will of God what ever it may be, until now one does not percieve any thing in the child safe the pain from the biting which is like a boil. On Sunday we were at C. and I was not disapointed in my expectation of a good sermon. According to the text we heard of Jacob. his fighting with God was the chief subject, than Jesus being given over by the father to the enemis to do with him what they pleased. So shall the saints at the last there fore we must prepare

The two cupples were married and after dinner went Timothious and Aline to Edacadu to follow the next day to Chombala. Silas and Daniel were with Timotious, all three send you love as well as our dear Aline.

After dinar we paid a visit to Mrs FitzGerald on our return home; Paul and David were very good no occasion for the rod since Friday. On monday I went again to C. as it was my turn, the two boys were glad to go again in the bandy. In returning home I paid a visit to Mr. West who had just sent a basket full of play things with a small parcel to dear dear Sister Keg. A fine horse is waiting for Freddy. Vau has a Elephant and many other little things. No news from W except his two daughters play very nicely piano and his son draw most beautifully. Mother and children will come towards the end of May. her being a very good house keeper has made General West very found of her and wish to keep her. She has spared for him a great deal of money during the time he was there.

From West we went to the Young, who are always anxious to hear about you and dear Mogling, they are full of his brother baptisem which has taken place last sunday, they wrote both long letters to our Ys as well as to Hebich, they have also sent books and Mrs Y<oung>* writes to her sister here. Since I have been baptized I wander how I could be so long without discovering in the Bible this decided will of God for it is as plain as possible, and if it is not seen of all it is because they will not see. Mrs Young was rather mouved by all their arguments and said well I will not read their books and Cpt Y "said I would not allow you to do so. Cpt Y said also Well I shall not wonder if by and by my brother leave the Regiment altogether becoming a Plymou or a Missionary." I am prepared to hear any thing from them now. His wife has been the Chief moover in the baptisem affaire as she wished for it before she was married.

Yesterday I had a long letter from dear Pauline W. I would have send it but it is still with Hebich, her son must be a wonderfull one for strength, but also famous for obstinacy. I can not complain of our dear David I believe he is a better boy than the others. He Grous much more like me in his features than like you, though I am sorry for it I cant help it and all is right! Vau is much pleased with the Elephant, still he continues his preachings and prayers Sleeps great deal at night and in daytime. Why do you think I have much trouble? I have not. I am very happy and joyful in the Lord I think I never felt so submited and willing to do the will of the Lord what ever it may be.

I just hear that Mrs Lascelles is to spend tomorrow with the Youngs and come here on the evening Hebich will be with them

