Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

13 Ottac. 1 Apr 51
 <Tuesday>*

My dear wife

Only yesterday I received and wrote a letter - today already another letter makes its appearance (written 4 days after the last. A strange post course this - but I am not nervous, thank God, and therefore neither anxious if the delay be a little greater nor frightened if suddenly an other letter arrives. - You mistake about the clothes. I can quite well manage with the things I have. That coat etc I gave to Mörike who is glad of it. I have generally the flanel coat on and for going on one of the 2 black ones. (The cloth-coat is not to my taste, too stiff and close). - You quite mistake about the gooseberries: Fred. asks in vain because I check the giving him too much. In spite of that he always gets something extra - now a piece of cake from Mglg, then figs or barley sugar from ditto, or honey or gooseberries from Mrs I. and Mrs B. And as you advise me so, I shall try to have some jelly made. - The relation of Heb's transactions with Uniamma Cugnicutti Temen etc has pleased me much, I hope they henceforth will go on better. That was indeed a "service" I mean to your person likewise. - I wonder what a time Jacob requires for these calculations. He had promised them for a short time, now there seems to be delay after delay. Could he not ask the Brother in charge of Anjercandy to furnish the needful. A little chit with the sum under each title would suffice as was explained to him: and if there is a list of the whole, let that be kept till my return. The thing stands f. i. thus
___Mangalore____________Communicants _____159
________________________Notcommunicants____26
________________________Children__________185
________________________Catechumeni _______35
________________________Total ____________405
It is very bad of Hebich not to write a few words about the GenlCfce business, has he sent the papers on? Don't you hear any thing about it? Irion also complains, to hear nothing about the matter in question. So try to spur him a little, in case he should have forgot it again.

I should have no objection to Thomas marrying Martha, if after hearing the doubts about her health and the facts of her family - sickness, he is determined to choose her. Only let him fully know the risk he runs. - No need I hope of any Cooly coming up here, if I want jelly by all means, I may buy it here somewhat cheaper, than you could send it. - Your invitation of Mrs Lascelles to the Young's house I have passed on to her. So let the Young's be prepared if such should be her choice, for her visit in the beginning of next week. She could of course not settle any thing until she has seen her husband's letters at Calicut. - You need not write Kaity on your letters, Ottacamund will do. - I shall try to send thro' Mrs Lascelles the little present of Miss Tucker to Elizabeth. Has she received her letter, will she answer? I never heard a word about it. - All this I write in Mögl's absence who is gone boating. You see what a fine steelpen paper and ink he has. So it is purely for your delight that I finish the letter here, for it must be a pleasure to get so soon an other and so fine an epistle from a tender husband, when one least expects it. If I had not ennui through Mgl's absence, you would not have got this epistle in such a hurry. It is empty enough, excuse, I am a little tired or should consider more what I let run on the paper. - 10 o'clock. I went after all to the Hodges where Mglg and Sanderson passed an hour. Met Groves on the way, all in a hurry. His sons have quarrelled with the young Minchin at Paulhally, and there are dissensions of the old people about their moneymatters. How sad! He just stopped his horse for a moment and promised to see me tomorrow at Kaity. He is so very glad of his girl, chiefly on account of Hannie, he said to Mglg. At the Hodges I saw the Foulkes' and Mrs Buhler just on visit, there was some singing and playing. Mglg returned on horseback, I with Sanderson who talks very nicely. Now I am to sleep with Mörike in a compound and will therefore conclude
 Yours HG.
