Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, Bearing

Send the inside to Elieser at Tellich. when you have occasion 
25 Kotergh 28 Jul 51
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

No letter today, because the Cann post has not arrived. Instead of it there was a letter from Huber to Bührer saying that his health is like glass, and that he will soon return to Calicut. He praises Palgh in several respects, but then says that his report about it will differ from Hebich's, as he will not deceive people with glowing descriptions but say everything soberly, that Hebich's tracts were all either torn or used all over the bazar for wrapping wares in, that himself gave only tracts to those able to read, but even these were purposely torn and laid on the way where he had to return by, that it is quite a Tamil place etc. The last order about writing for the press does not annoy him, because his legs had been chained for a long time etc

Robinson and wife came yesterday to service as also Capt Briggs the general's son in law. The latter is somewhat an admirer of Irving of whom he gave me a book to read. So I shall have a little discussion with him. He is evidently a fine substantial man. - Tomorrow Mrs Francis is to come to the Robinsons, to stay some days with her sister. Francis is to build the barracks near Cunnoor. - Irion did not come this way but by Cunnur. 
The little bit of paper laid inside you may give to dear Br Heb but not to your dear friend and fellow labourer. There is word of Pauline on it, and another from Mglg in reply "Miss will not" "Miss will" - Voyons. 
Stanger asked Mglg for a whole descript of his wife in a very ludicrous way, two or 3 times the question Is she beautiful or ugly, rich or poor, agreeable, tender, amiable peaceable, of yielding temper. M. says he cannot write a Steckbrief of her to him, but St then applies to Mrs Albr. and hopes M will also hear from Mrs Gr what is right. The case is, St. says, not like a servant's, whom you can afterwards dismiss and he has heard that she is eigensinnig. So we must just wait patiently what will come out of it, but he is such a singular person that one cannot foresee how he will proceed. Probably he will first hear in a byway, what she would say to him, before he addresses her directly. Mogl thinks more of her than of him. 
Mrs Gr. it seems suffered from dysentry and the newly gathered girl from fever, but the latter is proceeding well and gives them joy. 
Sanderson has followed it seems the advice of Mglg and will try something with the Rhenius of whom M. heard very good reports whilst at Bangalore. Also to Mör. M seems inclined to give good advice, that is he would be glad to see him well married <(with Miss Cockburn)>*. Mör spoke with me long about the subject, and I confessed to him my serious objection against the mother. So I hope he will take no step in that direction before he is sure that he does not bring himself under the direction of the Mother, who evidently thinks that all ought to go as she ordains. I have a low opinion of her faith, it is unreal wherever one touches it. The girl seems humble and nice, but hitherto so quite under the mother's guidance that little can be foreseen what she will turn out. The other day Mör asked en passant some pears for Mrs Buhr. On the day when Mör. left there came a basket full of pears and a note, alluding to the pears (pairs) Mr Mör. liked so much with a question, if Mr Mör. does not soon think of being paired himself: at the close a hope that one will pardon the poor attempt at joking. These sort of things go entirely against my grain and I hope that whatever he does he will take his steps with open eyes. The grace of our Lord is I am sure with him in the matter, though there is also a softness about him which at times I should think must give him inward trouble.

I have begun and finished last week 3 tracts in one breath, which I had long had in my mind; now they are completed I am glad of them and think they may have also the approbation of the brethren. They are in the form of dialogues <about Joh. 10,8 you may look in the ________________ p 170 the last 4 or 5 lines> one following upon the other. Tomorrow I shall have to translate the last of the Romans and thus conclude the work of the N.T. (the Epistles) - I have written to Salem about a pony will see what can be got from there, I even thought of paying a short visit there, if it can be managed.

Now farewell. May grace be with you.

Love to all, chiefly the 2.
 Yours HG.

Tell Martha with my Selam she ought rather to rejoice at Rösle's willingness to depart - and that the whole family meets so quickly in so good a place.

