Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

41 Kot. 9 Sept 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

So you are beginning at last to wish me back. I am so glad of it, for I feared already you would become so fond of independance that after all you would prefer to be left longer alone. - It is right that you say it. For I have now already written to the Fitzg. to try and buy me a pony at Ott. if they find one. If none is to be had, Mör lends me his to go down the Ghat and the remainder will be by water. I shall then think of leaving in the beginning of October. That will be sufficient time for me, to make up the Chir. account. Mögl wrote to me, that Insp. intends to have a short preparatory conference with Heb. and Mögl. which appears a wise arrangement to me. So M. will from the beginning have to deal with Jos. in an official quality, and there will be less reason given to those, who always complain of secret influences.

You will tell Heb that I have received his latest bills, to the tune of Rs 46.4 As and thank him for it.

There is a prospect of Caldwell the Miss[ionar]y accompanying me to the Coast. He preached a nice sermon on the 7th - and is a very clever man. His living together with Wardlaw from Bellary (who of course belongs to the Lond. Miss Soc[iet]y) is a very good sign - still there is something of the Churchman visible in him, and I do not know how dear Br H. would agree with him. Meanwhile I must see how the Lord arranges for us.

You have not looked it seems what the January letter from Stuttg. says about the nouvel an from Corcelles, or if it says any thing. Could you not find it? My Europeletters are all in a peculiar bundle arranged in order of time. I do not like to ask in Bale or Stuttg, without being first sure, that nothing about it has been written to me.

Your letters from Mary <Monnard>* and Miss Duhner I sent at once to Mrs Gr and begged her to return them to you. So you need not write to her so quickly; but do not send any note for her through me, if you will write, but dispatch it directly per post.

I intend to leave one of the boxes here if I can, for I shall not take down the heavy clothes. - I know also of Mrs Halliday's expectations. - Dear David so he allows you to wean him. I hope he will like his brother when he returns full of years and of experience. My precious Vau must perhaps make a change What would you say to accompany Mrs Bührer to Mang. taking Vau with you? She will come some weeks after me - you would then see Pauline and hear all about Marie and might return with Heb. when his conference is finished. Such a change would do good to you - and certainly to him. I would meanwhile keep house as well as I can. Don't consider this now, but move it now and then in your mind, till the time comes to talk about it. - The girls of Mrs Bührer regretted to hear from her, that I am about to depart before them. They and she herself have a good deal of longing for Mangalore, but Bührer is a little afraid to go to the coast before it be well dried. He perhaps tries a visit to Coimbatur next week. The Irion's are now there settled - and Beuttler's will be already on their road through Palghat.

My Selam to Young's and Mrs Cummin: also to Capt Carr. I hope he is going on well - Mrs Wardl. mentioned to Mrs B. that perhaps she will write to Miss K. to give her courage. I would not say yes or no to it. Now farewell Give my love to all in the house and in the Mission. Do you wish the French letters to be quickly returned to you? I wait for something else to go along, my father's letters or some other papers.

Now farewell in the Lord
 Yours HG

