Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

9 Koterg. 11 June 51
 <Wednesd.>*
My dear wife

You do not count well with your letters for home. These will have to lie with me nearly a month. You ought to write so, that I get them about the 4th of the month. Shall I say something about the mistakes? plainitude is very plain, but not full as it was intended to be - semblan-t - Paul vient <viens> prier (comes - come) - jenoux - g bananes not banalles. But why do you say you hear nothing from Basle when I send you all the letters; is it not a sort of accusation as if Miss K. was not willing to translate them for you. Who will imagine it is all your scruples about the contents? You may be sure that if I do not write to you, to keep a letter from other people's eyes, you may do with it what you like, and have it read to you by any one. Otherwise why should I send them to you. Have you really not read that story in the last about children in India being equally bad, compared with those in Europe. Marie showed common sense in that beyond the others. - Freddy just now also begins to hunt after sugar in his milk. he is very lively compared with what he was and understands well all I tell him of your letters. He prays now also in German - chiefly asking his blessing before dinner, but then he pronounces "Dir zum Preise" exactly like "diese Speise". Today he went with us to Mrs Whistler for dinner. He got only fruits and cakes, we a splendid meal, after which I had some occasion to tell him of Mission work. She is very showy and gay, her sister looked a little depressed - but I think the Captain accessible just now and could wish to have a ready tongue. - How is Heb prospering with his complaint about the Cannanore Maplas? How are our sick? how the newly married? When did the Monsoon come? - I have written to Mögl about the watches. Of Albr etc one hears that every thing is as saf as ever, no feeling of having been wrong for a moment. Pauline had heard bad accounts of her mother's health, and thought it possible she might soon hear of her death. Her prayer is that she may brought to the full gospellight before that happens. - Mglg seems very much pleased with what he hears of Pauline Ecklin, whom he judges to be superior to H<och>*. So he likes Haller very much. Otherwise he does not think to have become more acceptable to the brethren. Hiller was sure that Mglg had prepared all those Committee letters which are against the Oberlanders. He must be a clever fellow that Mglg. Truly what is he not all able to accomplish.

Freddy the other day watched the time when I was in my sheet and came to my table where he wrote additions and illustrations to my Malayalam grammar and other writings. Where the pen was not strong enough to mark a peculiarly forcible thought, he helped with the finger dipped in ink. When I afterwards came and asked after the author, he was too modest to aspire to such honors, that is he denied having done it, but showed such a bad conscience that I felt authorized to punish him with a rap over his hand. After he had done crying he confessed to Nanni what he had done, and seemed also to take to heart, what I told him about lying.

You will have heard now and then of the new sort of Deacons chosen in all our churches throughout Wurtemberg. Möglg's father has great joy and high hopes from this institution which my Ernst (you will have seen) condemns, though he says that in Stuttg. only the best men have been chosen. Mglg's Papa has thus received 8 helpers in his congregation, the very men he thinks the most worthy, and he cannot but feel that this new Institution will be a great blow to the Devil. It is certainly something very likely to become a new feature in the Church; the idea of a priesthood as opposed to the Laity is thereby cut off with the root. Where the minister is a man of God, he can thereby as it were multiply himself and educate in process of time a number of Home Missionaries - I am very glad of all that I hear concerning it. Ernst evidently would prefer to remain the sole priest and exclusive dealer in holy things throughout the sphere for which he may be appointed. So he is very much for liberty and equality in politics, but in his Church business anxious to be left sole Master. I have written to him on the Subject. But perhaps I speak this into the air, since you may have returned those letters unread.

We had strong winds today, so that it was an effort to walk to Whistler's house, the next on the road to the Wests. Freddy and Gottlob went in the Tonjon that had been sent for Sister B. They were much blown about by the wind, and seemed amused by it. Freddy especially admired a parrot there, that said How do you do etc He now asks every morning, do we go to Mrs Cockburn or ...1? and tries to please strangers, whom G. does not mind at all. - Now farewell to you all. May grace be with you!
 Ever yours HGdt

