Revd H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<57>* Chiracal <1 Sept 51>*
 <Monday>*
Dear papa

I should have sent this off this morning to keep up the 3 day, but you will excuse me to have violated the rule. We just return from Can. were we have heard besides a good preaching that Capt Young is not well on thursday after washing he felt a very great pain on the left side on the langs. the Dr has made him to swallow a quantity of remedies, he is some what better, he had been over charged with work and much excited by the disturbance which has again taken place as you will have heard at Mancherry. Maplas did attack the pions who were carrying mony to the adicari, they took the mony and killed the pions. 4 Europeen have been killed soldiers of coarse one of them quite by the side of the officer, but on the other hand all the Maplas 17 have been killed, still there is a report that an other party is ready to fight, but you will I suppose know more of this than me. Huber has not been satisfied to querrel with Hebich "de vive voix" he has written him an impudent letter.

Duncon has left Bangalore with his wife for Madras, after having shown some repentance regarding his conduct at Can. on being asked whether he would return here he said he would rather sit on the way and beg!

Gnianamutu's child has the pox too and is in the hospital, many European children are sick of the same sickness. May the Lord preserve us here as he has done hitherto.

Now thanks for yours of the 24th received 30th the lesson is right and well comed thanks also for it. I hope dear Etty will keep his promise and be very kind to his brothers specially to Pauly who requires much gentleness and love. I hope he will be well when you return The whole compound is aware of the great virtue of Etty having his head washed Arabella had also to publish it.

Israel whose two Eyes have come out is not to recover it appears from a bad bowel complaint quite like his mother. Barnabas though his pox being of the worst kind is some what better and one has hope of recovery. Joseph with all the boys are in the school room in Hebich's compound, he has made a passage to go through where the girls stay on sunday that is to say where the Vandy is kept and an hadg of bambus in front of the soldiers houses so that the boys have a free place inclosed, it looks very nice I hope you may be here for the baptism which is to take place Hebich speaks of 50 persons from Anjercandy, He is going there on Wednesday walking for he does not like the big horse of Capt Carr. Mrs Fitz has written me from Coimbatur you will by this time have heard or perhaps seen them as they purposed to go to Coonure. Marie dit que le tout d‚pend sur ce que St ‚crira, jai dit mais peut ˆtre qu'il attendra patiament sur votre r‚ponse decisif, dans ce cas j'en aurai fini avec lui a ‚t‚ sa r‚ponse. Ell conte donc qu'il doit la demander encore. Now Adieu
 J. Gundert
le 1 Septembre 51
