Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

36 Kot 24 Aug 51
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday I got yours of the 19th. One never knows when you write and what your yesterdays etc signify because you add your date after the whole is finished. This may be permitted if you will put the date at the foot of the letter, but if at the head, it ought to announce the day when the letter was begun not when it was finished. Pardon this lesson to your husband, you may conclude from it that he looks pretty closely to your dates and every contents of your letters.

You are not aware of Mrs Irion's illness, it seems to me, I have written sufficiently to make you understand. The womb is swollen considerably, tho' there is neither pain nor discharge. And that there is ulceration, has been ascertained by the speculum (a miroir pour l'investigation de tels cas). The Dr has not yet done anything farther than to promise medecine, and I indeed do think they have waited for him long enough at Kaity. They now will try the Dr at Coimb. Perhaps Haldwell even without instruments might have been able to treat this case, but we do not even know if he has left Madras.

I read your lesson to Freddy and he has promised to take it to heart; whether he will act up to it is quite another question. What annoys me chiefly with him in these little matters, is the circumstance that he shows them whenever he has got any thing extra or a little more than others. This he does even when he has been told to eat what he has begged for in his little room, or whilst the 2 others are asleep. He then tells them afterwards, that his Papa has given him ________ "much" or that he has got a piece __________ which means ____________ etc Of course I then make it up to the others. He is now very particular with stockings, I mean not only the "kean tocking" but he wants no stockings which _____________. He has learnt to make a great distinction between those with fine wool, and the rougher sort, and has already once shed tears over a new pair. These were dried as soon as Papa came to inquire.

You formerly said Isr. had got over the disease but nearly lost his eyes - now it seems some aftersickness has laid hold of him and his mother. What is it? and how is the state of his soul? Does one know what he came for when he left his caste and occupation?

Mglg has got a Brahmin youth who had been made a Roman Catholick and afterwards passed thro' the country in the company of an old rogue his seducer to cheat people by his story etc. M thinks he has now at last made a full confession and hopes he may yet be safed. He had been once in prison for stealing money from his Padre.

I wonder what your next will bring - about Hebich, his meeting at Tellich. and about M's views of the offer made to her.

Mrs Huber has written to Mrs B. that Mrs Fr expects an addition in November, and herself another somewhat later. I think these news are interesting to Ladies therefore I think I better tell them to you. For who will acquaint you with these events before hand if I do not do it. Mrs B. expects for Dec. and hopes then to be quietly at Mngl. He is not yet quite decided; but in case he should be afraid of the coast, she will take up with my company. The 31st will be baptism at Kaity. For which I shall probably make my appearance there.

There is a consumptive Lady here, a Mrs Oliver. Her husband hearing of her state and that she was obliged to flee from the Monsoon to this place, has in spite of the season left Bombay in a yacht and sailed to Calicut, where he has arrived safely and is now expected here this evening. He seems to be a man of faith. The Lady too, I believe - for I have not seen her: but she is not aware of her probably short term of life, for she tries to buy jellies _____ for her return to Bombay.

Tomorrow Freddy will go to see Mrs Whistler a great joy to him, for there will be cakes fruits and other attractions. He was again quite delighted at the Cockburns. There I had a nice conversation with him (Cockb.) but she seemed still annoyed. Did I tell you that Fennell visited me on the 20th and was amiable. He has not as yet visited Kaity, having had no time as he says.

For West's house I had got some money but Schnarre took it from me to make some repairs in his Ottacamund house. In Coonnoor they are to build a Church by private subscription. Stokes offers to help them if they will permit also others than Episcopalians to officiate in it.

Now farewell. Love to all, but esp. to my dear little fellows Pauly and Davidly
 Yours HGdt.

