Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

23 Kaity 6 May 51
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Again I have to write without having heard from you - I will therefore make it short, seeing you have plenty news inside though they are sealed to me. The news I have are not very great. We had plenty rain last week and from Sunday now 3 days such a wind as Mör. does not remember on the hills Several trees have been brought down; those exposed to the wind have difficulty to shut their doors and their eyes too at night. What it may be I don't know. Perhaps you had a storm as 4 years ago near the coast. I hope the coolies come soon for the Monsoon seems at hand. - Mglg went on Sunday to Cunnur to preach and as he had to walk one mile uphill to Church, he arrived bathed in perspiration, had evening meeting with the Onslows (she asked repeatedly after you) and brought Stokes with him to our house on Monday - from where both with Metz and Mör went into the face of the wind to Ottac. for the monthly prayermeeting. In the evening Mglg's pulse was again 120! - He is now about to pack and I give him with seeds from the garden (also Thee = Tea and oak etc try your best with Miss Kegel, Cugnen etc during the Monsoon, and before that dry the seeds well) also a book I bought up here. Nothing else occurs to me to send down as I do not like to pack Mglg with larger things - Mör. heard that Cantis wrote from the Cape to the Hodges - all well. I hope they wrote also to the dear Youngs - Sewell has also come up here, the 14th Missionary. - I am on the point of going to Ott for the last time, to buy mats, see J Groves and look for letters, on Saturd Mglg will once more come to us and leave for Avalanche on Sunday evening (11th May) to be the next Sunday at Cann. Mglg has an idea that Br Sanderson is not for nothing so often in the house of the JGr's - you know their Mary is out with them. But do not talk of this. I am also so happy to tell you that Minchin has for the first time been at Church to hear the Bishop whose chaplain he is called. What a wonder, says the world at Ottac! - Weigle was pleased with his journey and the Colonel - and is now for the first time persuaded that he must preach extempore. He has made an encouraging beginning. Now I have nothing more but love for wife and children and my Selams to all the people
 Yours HG

