Rev H. Gundert, Ootacamund, paid

<20>* Chiracal 26 April 1851
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa.

I have just recieved yours of the 19th Miss and myself have been happy anough to find very easily all what you ask the only thing not found is the Kerala Utpatti on palmleaves. Jacob thinks you have perhaps lent it to the Rajah where he will inquire and ask for ________________ I still wait for an other letter from you before I send the cooly. to know about Moerike's flanell. Timotious is soon going back to Anjercandy so Jacob hopes to obtain from him the liste of people. Joseph told me that Irion had* to send a cooly on the hills and that he wishes to send it along with ours, as people prefere to be two than alone!

Paul is still troubled with his iruption chiefly at night. All here is going on as usual. Mr H would write to you; but has too much to do. at last Duncan has gone with his wife, he has put up the white brethren against H and his people, he has been living for some days with Wapster, his wife with the Browns, and when reproved by Hebich for taking them in their houses! they said how could we leave our white brother on the streets! Duncan wanted to have his case judged by these people nearly all the soldiers are on his side. Hebich gave him some clothes 30 Rps and he has left for Bangalore in a Vandy with his wife, poor Joseph has been rather tried with such a fellow. Mrs FitzGerald dates her conversion from tuesday evening; she is afraid to speak less she loses what she has got. The Youngs were here last night, send plenty love.
 Yours aff J. Gundert

