Mrs Gundert, Mangalore, pd

6. Chir. 30 Oct 51

My dear wife

So this was the great marriage day, and I wish you to add my congratulations to this Hoch-Zeit (that is the time or tide of the Hoch's). Nehemiah was inspired by it so far as to bring me your letter this evening (that of the 28th), meaning probably that on such a fine day I ought also to have a subject for rejoicing. Many thanks for it, you are a good wife to write so quickly a second letter. Tomorrow I shall for the first time have the caustic applied by Dr Jowett, who lives near Capt Carr's house. The latter came this evening to inform me of it, and so I hope the Lord will bless this new step towards the recovery of a voice for his service!

If it is domage que D<ietz?>* est avec ces jeunes gens, why not make at once another arrangement. But somehow or other offences must come and try us all. I am glad you were so soon undeceived with regard to your sanguine expectation, as to the impressions which Jos.<enhans>* would make on all. We are indeed too old ever to expect such things though I trust we will remain young enough not to unlearn all admiration and hearty applause: God is surely pleased when we bring our selves to be well pleased without reserve and drawback, with one of His own works. So I am glad if you find much that is of God in Jos. you know how much he was to me, more than any man in the time of my conversion, but we must not expect that many can at once seize such excellencies in one, who as stranger and superior must stand at a little distance from them. May God enable him still to do much towards a better state of things in the Mission.

Miss K. has not yet given a decisive answer and so I can wait without difficulty. The Insp. has asked us (you and me) whether any proposal can be made about the way of carrying on the institution in case of her departure. When she answers I shall add my opinion that we shall be able with the help of God to make arrangements sufficient for the next time. Of course I am in no haste with regard to new transactions with the Ladies Society. I wish they may be able to carry out some of their plans, only they will have to try them somewhere else than in our Missionary circle: say in Bombay or Madras, wherever they find people who will take the oversight over such an institution and try to provide it with scholars. But Insp will himself see that our places are so much out of the way, that not much more can be done at present for the female population, than is doing already in connexion with the Mission. - As for the Masons I have begun to call for them and shall try my best.

Ammann to Honore? This seems to me a mistake. I would be all means keep A. within the Tulu Mission. - I hope Paul may profit much by Dr Foulis treatment Give him my love and thank for his kind enquiries. David is now again laughing and joking, and a particular friend of his Papa. I gave him yesterday a little emetic which was a means to put him aright again. Today he did not seek after you. Feddy is again quite fond of Isabella who stays here probably till your return. I have now bought her father's house for her and shall have it rebuilt. Carr visited this evening, but the children were shy. Miss K and Missy send their love. Everything is well. Arab. quite in the school, she also comes to my singing lessons.

Sanderson wrote to Heb. recommending to his care a young townsman of his, a travelling engine driver; I have let Jacob know about him and hope he will be cared for. Tell Heb occasionally.

Tomorrow morning the Youngs will return from Tellich.

Has Hermann <Kaundinya>* not as yet heard anything about his wife? You did not as yet mention Kullen.

31st Well I have been at Cann. breakfasted with Carr whom I had first met walking with Young, and saw then Dr Jowett who will first try electricity and then the caustic. Gompertz breakfasted with us. - I afterwards visited Col. Prescott (I hope you will praise me for this) who left me to his Lady, for whom I have some hopes. She would wish to cure Paul by homoeopathic remedies. But now enough! - Tomorrow the Masons will come and put in the windows. I hope it will soon be accomplished with love from all  Yours HG

David is now quite well and has 2 teeth more of which he seems not a little proud love to all!

