 <Mama, 31. Oct. 78>*
 <R 26./27. Nov>*
My dear Children [Samuel]

Many thanks for your kind long letter. I was very glad to hear from you dear Elisabeth, for since some time I feel the want to hear more of you. Your dear son must already get the rod I hear because of being passionate, it will pass away children have so times wich humble the parents; in seing their sins and misery in her little ones; but all this brings us to prayer and we know that it is not in vain for them and for us, happily that we have the promises and experience that the Lord hears us, if only we would pray more and with more faith we would recieve abundantly so that we could say in some measure after Paul there is nothing which the Lord has not greanted me. And your poor little Rebeca wants to be prayed for with her passionate charactere.

Marie has been in Stutgart some days, she brought pretty good news from your dear Mama and the whole house,

Are things to eat still so dear as they were? have you troubel with the food of the seminarists or their clothes? Now Christmas is soon coming it will also give you some work; though I suppose there is no money for making goodle for all. We shall have a quiet Christmas I suppose as our English girls are leaving us, one is going to Kornthal the other to Buhlach both wanted a change to learn some thing useful, we hope that they will profit by the change, it would have been difficult for us to keep them longer having no right school for them.

Please give my love to all those who remember me white and black. I thank Hermanle for his letter and send him a warm kiss as to his Mama and papa 
Adieu my dear daughter
 yours affectionate JG
1Papa als PS zu Maries Brf 31 Oct 78. Am 28 war ich in Stuttg und Lorch schrieb das letzte an der vorchristlichen Geschichte zum Abschluß des A.T. Heute kam das erste Ex. des A.T (1 Nov) So bin ich nun mit dieser Aufgabe fertig ohne auch nur einen Tag arbeitsunfähig zu werden, gerade ein Jahr nachdem ich die mal. Uebersetzung bei Seite gelegt. So darf ich wohl dankbar sein. Lebet wohl. Es küßt E V
