 1(21 Febr 78)
My dear Thomas

I felt for a long time that I ought to write to you, what stood in the way there was only the doubt whether a letter would be welcome after all that has passed. But let bygones be dropped, I wish to write about present things and only hope that this may be done without giving you unexpected pain.

You know probably that I have been drawn into transaction with Mr S. which have become exceedingly burthensome so much so that I have let him know that there must be a change. He has managed to far[r]ow his 5 children on me and learn more and more how foolish I have been to enter into this share.

How did it come about?

Your first description of him stood like a vivid warning before me, but then you changed your attitude towards him, I was nearly forced to think that you had found out how you had at first mistaken his character. He managed also to explain quite speciously what seemed to speak so loudly against him. There was such a ring of sincerity in the first communications that I could thank God for the apparent good that had come out of evil. 
He then seemed to tremble for his 2 elder girls, lest the various amusements and temptations in their holidays spoil them for the combat of life. How nice it would be if they could breathe the same air that had done so much good to B. This made some impression for though I do not think much of my own agency, I certainly believed, my wife and other female friends here had done something for the poor sick soul. <I should like to know .... a change for the better? May God make it really permanent.> When nobody else here could be induced to take the 2 girls, my wife courageously resolved to yield to the entreaties of M. S. and to take the 2 girls. But then he thought, why not send all the 5 over, institutions might be found for the boy as well as for the girls, only that they regard our house as their home in holidays. Not without a sigh we at last consented, and sent him prospectus' of the Kornthal institutions etc

For Febr 77 the children were promised and I was to prepare their berths. All was arranged, when a letter came saying, he had not been able to make up the sum needed because the quarters in the above institutions were to be paid in advance and he might want money for a contemplated move into the jungle* districts. Well, May was fixed as the next term. Again we got ready, when another letter said, he had so much opposition to overcome with his relations that the translocation could not be carried out. 
Now I thought myself happily out of the ticklish charge. We had done our part. <I certainly felt it strange that the money question - the exact sum needed - had never been touched. Only B was so open, as once to write that the difficulty of exchange made them think of having the children rather educated in Germ. than in Engld.>1

Being fully occupied we never at our time of life could have volunteered for such an undertaking. But suddenly we hear that the children are to be sent over in July. The lady to whom they had been entrusted had been so angry about the contemplated change that she had sent them away to their aunt Mrs. White. As the latter could do nothing for them, they were to be sent over at once.

And they came 27 July. Soon after a letter followed to intimate that from some cause or other he has now little money and will be straitened till April 78 when more means will be available. For the present he would send 20 œs every month.

By this time Harry was already in the institution where he alone would cost more than 5 œs. I had then to beg the principal to consider him as under 10 years and take him for a smaller sum till April. But of course I had to pay in advance for him, as well as for the 2 younger girls for whom I found a widow lady willing to educate them with her children. Anxiously I waited for money.

I received the first 22 œ 24 Sept, the 2d 27 Oct. by way of Bale. Mr S. had arranged with Pfleid that he would every month continue to send by this way and I had settled it with the treasurer at Basle. But Nov. brought no money, only a notice from Mang. that M. S. had given up sending the monthly payments thro' the Mission.

I remonstrated with him, but get no answer. At last 10 Dec I received from London 23 œ. And this was the last supply I have seen.

The children are now nearly 7 months with me, having no money of course I could not place the girls in institutions, in Jan. the quarter for Harry ought again to have been paid, but as my means are perfectly exhausted I could not do any thing, so the poor boy, most tenderly nursed thro' 2 dangerous illnesses, is now there on sufferance. I have laid out 118 œ and have received œ 67.13. - Perhaps I might add that Mr S. declares he sent money in Nov from a jungle station between Raj and Walt which might be delayed by the postmasters carelessness. any how it has not arrived. 
In vain I remonstrate that it is not fair thus to divide the work: I to have the daily care of the children and to provide the means likewise, he sending some letter or supply when he has time which is not very often the case.

The elder girls are quite sure that Miss P. loved them all dearly and was deeply grieved to send them away. She only did it on account of the "irregular payments"

I doubt much if her last quarter has been paid to this day. Thus the poor girls are to doubt about their fathers love and feel of course none for us, who cannot give them new cloths (which they really stand in need of) and must not tell them the simple reason, viz. that their father seems to have forgotten them.

As for me, with perhaps a quarter of the Majors income I have now this heavy burthen upon me am daily tried from all the usual expences, charities and see that by patience things only grow worse. He never condescends to explain why he victimises just me. I hear he is an excellent rider and I feel like a donkey put by him thro' all possible and impossible pains*. Mrs White had for 3 months to keep the elder girls without any contribution from the father, so she sold ... etc

I shall write to Mrs White who maintains a regular correspondence with the children so that she may try to engage the relations of the children for consulting about their welfare. I write this to you that you may know how matters stand and help by your advice.

If they are not taken off my hands within a reasonable time, I shall lay the case before my friend Col. Sweet (at Stuttg.) to advise me according to his experience.

To me I confess that such a father is a perfect riddle. If you can enlighten me (and him too) I shall thank you heartily.
