 128 Febr 78.
About Harry. (scarlet fever).

You will have heard from Mr Thomas that I am resolved to give up the charge of the children, as I feel that I am not equal to it and I beg you accordingly to relieve me of that confidence must come if ... You hope in your last letter, precipitation do not step in between. To you my action may appear in this light but who is able to put himself in another's place. I cannot explain to you why I feel forced to come to this resolution, except by stating that I live by my pen and cannot work well in day time if I have not my nights rest. You are made of sterner stuff monetary difficulties may have come and gone without disturbing your digestion or sleep, but I have always lived within my means, have never been in debt, and now to lead another life in old age is something beyond my powers. I should never have undertaken it if my eyes had been open. It is therefore my bounden duty to return to the old ways as soon as possible. I have nothing to say to the explanation of your circumstances. Also your paying by way of London was perhaps the better way, as the Basle exchange is less favorable. But there are other points which shake the confidence: which I hardly need enumerate, such as the promise (I will not say of 100 œs which the next mail destroyed but) of a double payment in Oct. instead of which you sent only one - then the unlucky payment of Nov. which never arrived, lastly in Dec. your entire omission. You resumed payments in Jan. but I can hardly see my way how to send part of the last sum to Kornthal, as I have to satisfy Mrs Klinger. Thus I have only the prospect of being more and more involved for children who have no claim on me. You intimated once that you now pay more for them than you did formerly, to this I can only say, why not leave well alone - and why not return to the former way. I dare say they might be kept at a cheaper rate if they lived all together. It may also be advisable to take the elder ones to India as their health is good and they have learned so much that if they like to cultivate their minds farther they can do it without regular masters. I write today to Mrs. White to tell her of my resolution (without mentioning the motives beyond the general one of my sentiments that she may be able to help you with any suggestions she or other members of the family may have to make. For it seems to me that no time is to be lost to come to a clear decision. And it is my hearty wish that you may arrive at one which is for the best of each of the children and _______ 



My dear Mrs White 11 Kildare Garden, Bayswater.

I have for some time contemplated writing to you about a matter which lies heavily on my mind. I find that I undertook too much when I consented to take charge of Major Stoton's children. Now I have let him know that I wish to be relieved at his earliest convenience, and in order that no time be lost, I think it right to mention to you how things stand, that you may consider with any other members of the family concerned in their welfare, what suggestions you may have to offer to the* father* concerning them. it seems that he had thoughts of taking them out to India which I suppose may only refer to the girls, as I should not think Harry could well undergo such a translocation at the present time. So then Please to write to Major St. what you think but to advise in the matter.
