 1Calw 31 Jan 78
My dear M Stoton

Today Harry leaves us after some stay here for his reconvalescence (also to escape the chance of infection as a case of scarltfever had occurred in the K instit). This boy being well again H may now return, he is really anxious to learn and makes good use of his time.

At the same time I am now called upon to pay 349 M 66 = œ 17.9 at K. As I am absolutely without money I must confess to Prof Pfl my inability to do so. I send you the account. They have had considerable expenses for H's illness 110.60 (or œ 5.10) and have only counted what they paid to nurse Drs apoth etc. I am the more ashamed not to be able to pay - and send you therefore the account to be pd as you think right.

I have spoken with Nellie, but to little purpose. What is to be done when she has the full conviction that Miss P loves them all dearly and has not the same conviction concerning her father? As I do not know the merits of the case I can, nay must keep aloof from these matters confining myself to the obvious duty of inculcating the honour due to the father and the thankfulness for your exertion, in behalf of the children

However indiscreet Miss P may have been in her confidential outpourings to your daughter I think you judge her too harshly when you use the term "poison the children's minds". There was surely no imputation of dishonesty. But she was so fond of N that she made of her a confident before the time whilst you did nothing to counteract unfavorable impressions. She may have judged you harshly taking a one sided view, yet all along she loved your children and it cost her a pang to give them away. Let that plead in her favor!

How differently things appear from different standpoints! You write on the 21 Dec.: With Nov the children have been 4 entire months with you and I have remitted in that time Rs 1000, realising I suppose some 89 œ." I here at Calw can now say: The children have been with me 6 entire months and I have received for them œ 67.13. Both statements are perfectly correct. Shall I not do right in excusing Miss P. on account of protracted sufferings from irregular payments? My sufferings are real, though I do not accuse you of any thing like dishonesty.

To my mind you appear as a man who is too much occupied. I am not sure that you read my letters accounts, prospectus etc all through. They come at unlucky moments, you have so much to do that you delay considering them and meantime send off a quietus in the shape of a money order that may or may not be written legibly. (I may still figure with your banker as Pundert). Other hindrances may occur. You do not take time to remove them. 
You might have known from the accounts of Oct. that January would be a hard month for me (and April and July) when I had again to advance money for H's Quarter. Yet you made no special provision. You did not thank the Instit at K for lowering H's pension from of a boy 10 years old to the amount paid by younger boys. All such details seem too little in your eyes. 
What if I told you that apart from all that I had to give away in cash for the children not one of the many meals they have eaten in our house has as yet been paid for?

If you had continued to pay regularly as 24 Sept and 27 Oct œ 22.3. (or even 20-) we might have managed somehow till the promised relief of Apr. November however passed without payment, on the 9th Dec the 23 œ from Engld came in. Since then perfect silence.

You may say we ought not to hold you responsible for any accident to letters from junglestations etc. True, but such cases ought to be rare and after so many years of having children in Europe you might have learned a way of making matters run more smoothly

As I have not taken this contingency into account when I yielded to your wish to take the children, I must now beg you to relieve me of the charge. At least let another be the paymaster to Prof. Pfleid and Mrs Klinger. I have thought of Col. Sweet at St to whom your children have been strongly recommended to go, by their Aunt. They have not yet seen him, nor have I ever spoken to him about them, but as he is also in Wtbg for the education of his children, being an old friend of Dr White he may perhaps be induced to interest himself in their behalf.

Again you may send the girls to Rev H. J. Staudt, K. I also intended to place there at least N and Ethel in Apr in case I should have money to pay the Quarter in advance, œ 8.12 each. Perhaps if all 4 are offered to him, more favourable terms may yet be come to.

It will be my endeavour as soon as I receive any money to send at least a part to Prof Pfl of what is due to him.
