Statement of Theophil

 (2 June 1845)

On the 25th of May, Sunday, after morning prayer, Theodor took me into the garden and told me of a secret which would make my happiness, and yet in no way be contrary to God or to the Sahebs. I must promise with an oath to keep it secret, in case I should not consent to partake in the plan. I did swear, and then heard that it was a plan to give me 500 Rs by leaving the school: after an other oath the particulars of the plan were communicated to me, and soon after Baker and Muttoren joined us to congratulate me. Baker as well as Theodore promised to be surety to me for the 500. They had long been in connexion with Alibi Keyi and others, and were satisfied with their sincerity. When Mr Gundert went to the English service, we 4 proceeded to visit the Cadi behind Mr Baber's house. He said he did not as yet trust us, that we might come if we liked, on Friday to the mosque, but that he would not call us. Yet would he show unto us the power of his religion, and taking a box in the lid of which a great many sword points were fixed, he firmly stepped on the points with one foot swinging a sword. We all were quite bewitched and confessed that we could not do that with our religion. Upon this he left us and 4 Moyliars supplied his place who raised our hopes to a higher pitch. - On our return Joseph observed us and asked if we had permission to go out at this time. Theodor said the step must be taken without delay or we shall be betrayed. I felt then troubled in my mind, thinking of my mother, but Baker brought some Bang, which we smoked out of a piece of a plantain stem to gain courage, and when the bell rang for supper we went over the bridge, first Muttoren who carried our baggage with Theodore, then Baker and I, both parties asking if not some runaways of the school had passed this way. Moplas were posted on different spots of the road: to guard against any interruption. The Cadi took us to the Mosk in Paytalcheri, where we put Topis on and received the names Abdallah (Thphl) Mahomet (Theodor) Abderrahman (Muttoren). After prayer to a shop of Ali Hajji for supper: returned to sleep in the great mosk. We were afraid on Monday morning of a visit from the Padres, but the Cadi told us what to say, accordingly we answered Mr Müller when he came to ask us how we had come to this place, that we had come hither as freewillingly as we had joined the Christians. Besides we had been assured that all were ready to die for us in case one should try to force us back, and the Cadi showed to us about 50 - 60 swords, lying in troughs in the Mosque, with which the believers would make a dreadful onslaught. From that day we used to go about and collect presents, I received little money, but about 40 handkerchiefs; we ate in the morning in the mosk, for supper we were invited by different merchants who treated us exceedingly well. An immense assembly convened on the 3d day, when we were initiated into some of the tenets and formulas of the Islam. I observed that if the doctrine of fatalism was true I needed not to become Muselman: but was answered that also a very bad fate written on the skull would clear up as soon as one trusted in the prophet. Much was said concerning the false doctrines of Christians. Theodor had brought his English bible with him, refuted the eternal sonship by "to day I have begotten thee" ridiculed Gal. 4,4. and hinted at the possibility of Christians believing in a carnal connexion of their God, since the name of his wife was never mentioned. Baker said: Jesus deserved to be called the Son of God because God loved him with special love: no, said Th. God loves all alike. Baker and Theophil were somewhat separate from the other 2, tried to keep aloof from the multitude, confessed to each other that they had as it were a fire in their body, wept somtimes, but then again did as the others. After the circumcision Th. and Th were to study for the priesthood at Ponani, B. to return to his uncle, M. to become clerk in a Calicut shop or saltgodown. The Cadi's daughter was proposed to Theoph. Keyi's daughter a relation of the former to Theod; B. was to take the girl of his uncle Cugni Peri Moyliar: and M. has to wait for 2 years. The 2 married were sometimes afraid they would be sued for maintenance of their wives: when B. said he should plead that he never had one, another time that he was married to Miss Marguerite, and that he would request the latter to accompany him. Theod. spoke of claiming his wife for a servant, at other times he said, that as she had formerly been promised to another, he is glad that now both she and the Padre have to repent and to weep till their eyes be gone. On Sunday morning (1st June) I saw my mother just arrived from Calicut and could not restrain the tears, but was at once determined to go with her. But the Maplas would not let me go and shut her out. Theodore tried in vain to persuade her to stay and be mother to us 4 and to our 4 wives how well she would be cared for. A Dr offered to gain her over by a medicine: I replied that was not enough he must gain me too. When the peon was sent to call me for a declaration to the Cutwal's Chavadi, moneybusiness was transacted with him and he said to the Christians without, that he could not force the Moplas to let me go, whilst to me he said Pig, stop where you are, why go back into the dirt. etc. After all the peons went away pretending to be afraid of exciting a commotion: but as I cried and begged without intermission the priests once more showed to me a bag with 500 Rs, collected for the great feast, counted them before me, and asked me to choose. As they saw me determined to go, they said they would not force me, but whenever I return I shall be well received: though that was a doubtful matter, as none who had dined in the Mosque lived 3 or at the highest 4 days after quitting the faith. Besides I must take care lest my head become not a broken cocoanutshell. Theodor cried: Oh, my right wing is broken off, and I escaped thro' the reopened door to my mother and friends.

