Mrs Gundert, care of Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

 Saturday 4 Oct <45>*
My dear wife <in Cannanur>*

I am afraid you will not have slept much after our departure - I believe it was not yet 3 o'clock when we started and we had to grope our way, I walking - sometimes with the boys, sometimes they sleeping in the bandy led by the horsekeeper, till we came down the last hill, when the gun announced 5 o'clock. There we got______________for the children and came quickly to the end of our journey before even the morning prayer was over. - Herm. and Samuel learned half the day though they were rather tired. Christiane was highly delighted to see me, also Marie who had been a good child and not cried much. -

Yesterday night Herm. did again cry in a corner, because Mama is not here; but he listened to my comforting words and they are all happy today. - I have not gone to Anjerc. because I had headache yesterday and find that there are 5 weeks in this month. So you may expect me on Monday morning, when I hope to find you a little better and quiet. - The Müllers say nothing about coming. I hope he will not leave till he has printed all. He writes Sutter's child was baptized Louise Wilhelmina Julie. The Greiner's seem to think of going to Mercara Mogling is soon expected back. In the school all is going on quietly. I suppose that also your sickness contributes to make the children now and then more sedate and open to the word of life. Let us rest our minds more and more on him who is the rock and we shall not be shaken come what may.

In the hope of seeing you soon with love from all
 Your HGundert

Give our Christian love to Br Hebich Mrs Cummin etc.


