Rev H. Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 23d Dec. 57
Dear Papa.

Here the news God be praised!

Richter came this morning not at all "deconcerte" at the observations of Mrs H. "If it is Gods will it will come to pass, and I cannot go back without speaking to Mr. H. said R. In two month the Coork mission is to belong to a soscity either Church mission or Bale." So I went to the Mama told her of R having come and of his desire to speak to her. She came back with me and had a long talk with him in your room! He is to go take tea with them this evening. She asked me when I went to her "has he any money? Does he belong to a respectable family? I am to act for an other therefore I have to care for the future. Should my daughter have to go home would she find a propre sosciety in his relations?" To this I said that she had to inquire to himself so I left her alone with him. She tried him a good deal he told me afterward: for: Why he had left M. to go to Coorg. he did not tell her the reason, made it up as well as he could. I leave room to say a word after I know what an impression she made on him; for from this depend the future

As Richter will write himself how he went in his first entrevue I say nothing. The Robinsons have come back yesterday, they are to be present tomorrow at the girls Christmas present! Richter shall play, the small church piano shall be carried at school for the purpose. I only wish the evening be over already

Now Good bye May you have a good Christmas and I too
 Yours J Gundert

No mercure as yet has come
