 Balmatta 2d Sept 57

My precious Frederic

As I have still time I will also write you a few lines; and next to the sweet Paul; for though he has said he would rather not be the child of a missionary in order to play well and be naughty when he likes, I do not believe him and I am sure he is very glad to be a little Gundert and to have such kind brothers and sister and such dear papa and mama whom he will help when he be big.

You had a very great joy to see your two eldest brothers, your grandmama and Tantes did you not also wish like David that they would stay 100 years? but perhaps both may soon be in the same town as you are! then you will be able to see them perhaps every Sunday, that would be nice no? Well never mind dear boys did you sing together about the happy land where we shall meet to part no more, David knows it well and often sung it to me when I was grieved to have to part from him, usually in bed he comforted me by that sweet hymn. And so it shall be, we shall be together in our Lord's Kingdome; for I believe that my children all of them will believe in Jesus and love him and so go to heaven. How is it sweet Frederic with your lessons, is it still very hard for you to learn? Have you also tryed to pray that the dear Lord would help you? you must not be discouraged if it does not come at once, pray again and again and be quite sure the Lord will help you to learn well. Your dear Aunt is also very kind to help you so that it be less difficult for you. How good is the Lord for you dear boys He takes such great care of you and has given you such good parents in our stead, I hope you love them and are obedient. When Marie is once here if such is God's will she shall write you for me long letters.

Give to your dear Aunts for me plenty love and thanks.
 Your Mama
 Julie Gundert

