Dr. H. Gundert, Calicut

 Balmata 2 Aug <57>*
Dear papa

Sunday morning; I have not yet heard from you but I hope to get a letter to day when I go down. We have made a mistake I think in sending our home letters to you at Calicut for you will have been longer on the way than you thought at first, the weather being so bad here till do day it has been just like in the beginning of the month soon much wind and rain, to day it looks as if it would clear up. Thusday evening none of the gentlemen of the town came up for the meeting. Carr who came the next day said that Gompertz and Bats were so tired that they could not come and they did not send him the Vandy They did not loose much it was about submitting to Magistrates. The Dr looked tired too. It is indeed difficult to speak so that the hearers be edified; and nothing will do but that which is given from above, therefore with out much prayer, preaching or meeting will not help! 
These week is a very busy one for Hoch and Kauntinga they had much to do with the people for the Lordsupper. David has left Ruth took his boy and went away. As she wish to be at school or with me I told Mrs Hoch that she might be a good help for she knows work well; she did not seem to like the idia too many help is not good she said, however they will take her down at school. The work of K. and Pfleiderer in the Jail is already at en end a contremand of Governement has been sent yesterday, Mr Thompson writes very nice about it K. said but I do not know what except that he is sorry it should be stopted Mrs Hoch is still very much the same, pains, weak, feels very billious, however last night was better from a supositary pill. 
I look for a good day to day and trust the Lord will give it to us both and to many of the congregation

With love to all
 Yours Julie Gundert

I have just received yours for which accept thanks

1Sonntag Morgen. Gerade komme ich vom Doctor. Der arme Mann will wieder nicht zum Abendmahl gehen. Ich suchte ihm beizukommen, aber vergeblich. Er spricht davon, daß er gesündigt habe, und zwar fleischlich. Ich mochte nicht weiter fragen: Du wirst wohl wissen, was das heißen soll. Ein solch passiver Unglaube ist doch was schreckliches! Der Herr wolle sich über ihn erbarmen! Ich war freilich surprised daß Du fort warst, aber ich konnte es ganz gut begreifen. Ein anderes mal mehr. Der Herr mit Dir!
 H. A K.

