 M<angal.>* 25 Dec 57

My dear wife

I just receive your Nro 1 - I am glad you saw the Robinsons. Richter will of course be disappointed, but who knows for what all it may be good - Yesterday evening I held the Thursday meeting at the Dr's. It was quite like Tuesday - Hebich had made it so, and as he returns soon I did not change. <Dr>* Br<ett>* looks happy Gomp. who lives with him particularly so. Kindersley sent me today a very valuable book as Christmas present with a kind letter. Also Gomp. was glad to have preached to him a few days ago, when all was received. Thomas is quite agst Heb. who had visited no Civilian but him, and was called by him to his face a mischief maker and what not all. So I have no inclination to go and see him. - No one havg invited me I could not preach English, for 6 weeks the brethren have given it up. But if invited by the Trustees I shall take it up. Today I intended to preach Tamil, but the Cat Danl being sick, the Tam people came into the Tulu service, thinkg there could be no service for want of an interpretor. I have therefore a very quiet day - suppose you may have got your telegram today or yesterday and who knows - on Sunday I may hear from you Tomorrow Fisher is to give a picnic at Goorpoor, but I do not know who may go there. Goddard intends going home in March.

Hauser may get a wife before the Monsoon, so decided are the steps which he has taken at home. Cam is slow about it, HK taken up by the question mightily, but not as yet outspoken to me. Mrs Mglg in Europe is to look out for him, it seems.

Now farewell. Let us rejoice in the Child born unto us.
 Yours HG.

Catech. Samuel, Daniel etc all send Selams to you and enquire kindly after you

