Dr. H. Gundert, Depy Inspr of schools, Calicut1, Mission house 
5th Mangalore 18th May <57>*

Dear papa

Since no letters have come to put the enclosed one to gether I think I have better to send it with a few lines. I have just returned from church and heard Kaundinya on praying in the name of the Lord Jesus! If only he was slower in his preaching I believe it would profit more to the hearers! Pfl is now always at the Tulu preaching At my return I found nice vegetables which had been sent by Mrs. Kindersley. He met yesterday Kaundi. and heard from him that you had left, he said he hoped that you would not give up preaching, and spoke as if he had profited by. The Degg left this about three yesterday the 16th she is not happy every one can feel it; he is also a curious tempered man. Amman is expected this evening and will leave early tomorrow for Mercara. The weather is now very fine and I hope we shall be able to send off Joseph by sea. I think he is afraid of Hebich and will not go, though he does not say so, he looks well. On Friday he did not stay here for prayer, when afterward I asked him why? he said he had gone to the other house to pray there! which can scarsly be true as they have not prayer before 8 o.c.

How are you? You have no time to think or speak of your health? Moegling is well and wrote to K. about some work which he has for Mr Arbuthnot some thing from tamül and telegu to be in Canareese.

Hunziger looks still poorly; Hebich told him he should write to the Committ‚ about his love matter. He had a letter from her. I think that troubles him a little. The Dr looks better! Nahum has dysentery it appears. Koragi is well, but his wife is out of humour! Your first from Calicut just arrived for which thanks. Amans bearers are ready; but he is doubtful whether he leaves this to day or to morrow. Beosingers took tea here last night, the more I see him the less I like him

Gompertz paid also a short visit and went to the Dr

Missi some what out of tune again.

Now Adieu with love to all there
 Yours J. Gundert

Gompertz has heard from Major Carr who is very happy with the Youngs he is quite stout

