Dr H Gundert, Malapuram

 Balmata 6th August <57>*
Dear papa.

Many thanks for yours of the 3d I am sorry to hear about Sister Fritz, and hope the Mama and baby will soon get strong. Yesterday Dr Jauvet was called again, a large blister was applied which of coarse made us to pass a very bad night, however this morning the Dr thiks that she is somewhat better. Still it is daubtful whether she is not to go to Coimbatoor. Yesterday Hoch made up his mind to take her there according to the advice of the Dr as Coimbatoor seems to be the best place near at least from there she might get farther on the other coast if necessary; however they will wait a few days longer to see the effect of the blister. Mr Hoch spends the day here today and is writing in her room. He got a very impertinant letter from Moolky from the people to whom he had witten.

I just received yours of the 4 for which best thanks Hoch has at once copied your remark about Deggeller to insert it in his letter home as he is just writing. It will be right and nice if our little ones go to Stutgard during the vacations. If Deggeller was not so nervous about the rebellion He might let his wife go down to Coimbatoor to care for Sister Hoch if she goes. It would be a hard business for him to leave just now; but what to do. I might go with her; but we alone two female on the road can scarly be done. I will write again tomorrow to let you know how it is. 
Now good bye

 With love to the dear Fritzes
 Yours Julie Gundert
1Dear papa

This morning the letters of the Inspector Josenhans and Dr Barth have been sent to you a few hours afterward came this dear one of Herman while I was with the drummers women. So good news again, next month shall bring some thing of Marie I hope. I had just an invitation from Mrs Robinson for to morrow Yourself and me.

Mrs Hoch is better to day and walks about more easily than she did before. Hoch spends the day here. He had news from the Commity; but I do not know what. You will get plenty news for large paquets have passed here for Canna Tellicherry and Calicut, I may perhaps hear from you more about the party who went home. I was amused at David calling Frederic papa, and at the latter one's letter to Herman saying I do not understand your letter and cannot answer it. Well next time it will be plenty news, the pity is that you are not here.

Since you left it has been pouring down and so much wind that I fear you will have been very wet. happily you went to good friends who would warm you and make you dry. More happy still to have such a father who can keep from sicknesses. I paid a visit to Miss Will who is happy and chearful in her work, Johana is a good help and they go well to gether till now. Mrs Walker happy and thankful when ever husband or mother are engry with her she says to Mrs Madden I deserve a great deal more than all this, she is always ready to praise the Lord.

Now I will say Adieu wishing you much peace and joy! love to all  yours affectly
 J. Gundert

