 Ekambi 15 Oct <57>*

My dear wife

This evening I hope to reach Sircy when I may give this to the post. Early on the 13th I left Hoobly - the M's being still asleep, they will have looked for me, for I was to take Nudeln etc but after all I thought it best to be off quietly. At Tadas spent the evening with an Engr Officer, but could do nothing, so adroitly did he turn the conversation, being evidently well up to the subject. Ashamed I lay down into my cart and went on - thro' such a mud as you never saw - I was glad you were not with me, walked much, to spare the poor beasts my burden of 191 pound (weighed at Tadry), was detained by a fallen drain, reached Mundegode 14th about 9' - wrote Spleissiana - pushed on in the afternoon, slept somewhere on the road, when it was too dark for the bullocks, and pushed them again on soon after midnight. Reached this - 10 miles from Sircy, about 9 AM. Was visited by a RCath. overseer in Müller's department; he explains to the people the contents of the Canada varttica, and seems also better acquainted with the Scriptures than many RCaths

I am really quite satisfied that you ought not to have been with me - but at another season of the year I think you would enjoy the change exceedingly. Fancy, in the Hoobly house the bamboos on which the tiles rest are still the same which Frey put on. So much does every thing remain unchanged, whereas we at the Coast have all sorts of changes. I gave a Cheese at Hoobly as also at Dh. But J M cannot eat of it. Elise likes it. She is a very nice and naive child. Their Johannes was on board ship called the beautiful boy. Of his sickness the father did not know as much as I told him by communicatg what Herm. wrote. Emily writes pleasing letters, about the same stories of which Fred. was full. If all goes well at Sircy and Coompta I may be with you about Wednesday. But it is difficult now to settle anything, as I have not yet seen the school nor the gentlemen. May the Lord bring us together in His own time
 Yours HG.

