 Tadry 3 Oct 57

Dear wife

It is Saturday afternoon, we <Gdt und Goddard>* have landed here, I gave the parcel to Kleinknecht, who says it is not for him. So I take it on to <Sebast.>* Müller, who has come to Ancola where I may see him this evening (only 7-8 miles) We breakfasted on Wednesday aboard the Pownah, with Williams - afterwds day and night not quite to Moolky - Thursday afternoon fine wind, Friday we stood long before Honore and at last cast anchor for 15-16 long hours. Today to Tadry, where the first ship has come inside to be loaded from Mr Brice's pier. We hear Müll has come to Anc. to meet us. We had a fine trip on the whole, but dear Godd's complaint return from the bad water etc. The plan of preserving milk has failed, but I ate the curds of the Sodawater bottle in my curry today. We did not much in the way of reading and praying together, but lay for the most time. G. feeling somewhat better on deck - I more under cover - I think we must yet dine with Laurie's before we start. Kleinkn has shown me the cotton presses etc. brethren that land at Cann for the upper country are to be sent on by way of Tadry rather than Coompta.

G. sometimes felt Gomp's absence very much "how it would be time for our morning reading etc" he hopes that by some days exertions ashore his bowels will come right.

The enclosed I got at Mang. before I started. Donot show to A. the letter if you do not think it right. It came quite open. - How did it fare with you, the dear Hochs' - K's journey? I am quite greedy to hear. Farewell the Lord be with you very present and with
 your HG

