Dr H. Gundert, Depy Inspr of schools, Calicut, Mission house 
 Mangalore May 12th 57
Dear papa

Many thanks for your second just received. You should have had a letter from us by the time you wrote. Yesterday the 11th mond morning came the boys with Mr Kaundinya, it was truly painful to see them without the two who went to a better home. It was rather a troublesome day; for as soon as they had arrived, there were news that a pattimar would leave that very evening for Tellichery so I had to make ready for them that is for Willian, Joseph and the Deggelers who were to go till Telli, by sea; for one cannot get a boat to go beyound; Well after much business of preparing and packing at which Houser and Camerer took a good deal of trouble towards evening we heard that they would leave only next morning, but now this morning it looks just as if it was the moonsoon: so that probably they will have to go by land, and the packing must be in part changed as the bagage must go by bandies or coolies. Joseph is delighted not to have to go by sea; for he at first refused to go by sea. Willian looks nice. Ebenezer came also yesterday. The school being not yet opened; he has began just now with Mr Pfleiderer, He brought no news or rather I did not ask him; having truly had no time to call for him and hear all about, Camerer will go this evening to Udupi, I have just a letter from Mrs Moegling She is not well and he is laying with fever. She says that he will soon write to you and both send much love, her letter may perhaps come to you one of these days as well as one of Mrs Smith. Kaundinya looks very well and is chearful Deggeler is better! Nahum looks poorly he keeps at his house for a few days; for he is too weak to do anything. So does Korage of whom Mr Kaundinya gives a very good report; though he had not the Cholera; but did help faithfully the others; he does not feel quite well. The Dr says that a good cooling medecine will soon make him quite well.

13th Yesterday evening came the home letters which you now get I have heard them except the one of Mr Ostertag which I have merely opened in order to take the very thick one of Marie which was in side. She did not know as yet your wish to have her out, it may be at Bale they kept the letter which was for Corcelles. You have probably something about it in yours of Os. let me know by and by please. Well good news of those dear boys and Yette. Thanks to God for his grace in them.

In a few days the Deg. will go by land it seems the sea is too unsettled and it may go on so till the monsoon. I should like to know more about Tante Emma, perhaps the Lord has gained her through Herman! Kindly tell Mr Fritz that I was going to return him the box of Zacharias by the Deg; but as they go by land they cannot take it; they shall only bring a bundle the books shall be sent by an other opportunity If Mr Fritz would sell you the box I would be glad it is very convinient for traveling. Now you have plenty news from all quarters so I say Adieu

Since you left I have had no time to learn Tulu. I recollect well Mrs Cullen and her Eldest daughter who was also on the Hills.
 Yours Julie Gundert

