 Nicht Mang sondern Calicut 5 Aug 57

My dear David

You are a little rogue not to write to me at once about your arrival at Basle. However as Herm. has written what he heard from Frederick, and also Mr Inspector has informed us of your arrival, we know it for the present and shall now only look anxiously for the report about the Feste which Herm. is to give us. How very strange that you should call Eddy your Papa. Does he not look more like Mama? And people say, yourself are most like Papa, only you ought to be a little bigger. - Here I am with Mr Fritz. His little Adele plays with me a little. When I come to the table without a coat, she can say, you have got no shame. But then I remember how my David was often what Major Young called - in full dress, and I fancy, we are very much alike in this that we can go in sleeves (hemdaermel they call it in German) and fancy ourselves well dressed. Here I have visited the big English school, and when it strikes 5 o'clock, all the boys shout from joy and make such a noise that you begin to fear for the house, the roof might come down. But it does not: only the boys run out and slap each other full of fun and glee. This night I must go farther and I don't know when I shall return to dear Mama. She has now Mrs Hoch with her: and I am half glad I am not there, because those children cry plenty every day - as soon as one is comforted the other is distressed, and bawls like a little baby. Their Paul is the biggest, but not the best. Markele is the most quiet: Theophil has not a moment's patience, still he is a nice little fellow. If you were in the house, I dare say I could bear a great deal of noise from you: only it must not be in the way of lamentation, because I want boys to be not so very tender to little pains and troubles. Where are you now? at school? or walking out and eating fruit? and planting your kernels and seeds in the garden? How did you like your sister and the big brothers? Did you soon make friendship with Eddy and Vow? Are you now pleased with apples instead of plaintains? Grapes you will like very much, I am sure, better than those crooked German letters. I hope you like the life at Basle much better than that on board ship. But you will still sometimes remember Mangalore and Chiracal and Cannanore, and not forget your Mama and Papa, who often pray for you and your brothers and send plenty kisses to all three  Your Papa

