 Cann 15 Nov <57>*

My dear wife

Sunday today - I preached early English - for the native service the new brethren gave some contribution - some English people present, also Mrs Bösinger and Mr Lange with the latter I had some conversation - don't know if Heb. spoke not too favorably of him. May God guide all aright. He is not as yet sure of his own mind and way.

Yesterday night, I divided the thread - but Mrs Muller's worsted is not to be found. I promised her some of my woollen stockings for M. who continually uses them. - Brigr is not well and will soon go to Europe it seems. - Glasson was very angry with Heb. called him (in writing to CM) a Sultan and what not all. Heb. really thinks he was near his conversion and turned back from it. His companion Padmore or what ever his name is appears to be an enemy of Missions. Young Harley comes also in a bad spirit - there was no brother with them on board the Windsorcastle. - Haller seems not to know his own mind, he talks of marrying M. giving her up and going to America, all in one breath - The people all ask much after you. Annamma who was with Mrs Yg comes down to you within a few days, she is with the Engr Capt. Bean.

Mrs. <Chr>* M<üller>* appears to me decidedly in opposition agst Hebich: but he (M) is nice. The Sauvain's were in - not pleasing to me. God makes me feel sometimes very queer about the Mission - I have more joy in looking upon 5 new brethren whom I do not know, than upon several that are in the work and as for men that are outside, not merely Gompertz, but even Haultain Taylor etc* - how superior to many Miss[ionar]y. (Lechler's Christians have written to Heb. complaining bitterly of L.) The Lord have mercy on His own work.

 Love from Your HG

