+ Mangalore 20 July 57.

My dear David!

What a time we had to wait for your dear letter - and after all we only got that from the Cape. ...1 You are, I fear now half English, half German and don't know how to speak and how to write. I dreamt on the 4th of May <(auf Pattimar vor Casergode)>, when the sea was rough and I turned many times on my mattrass, that I met Mr and Mrs Bührer, also the other parents of the children were behind me: When we came in to greet them, they looked so sad and I asked: where are the children and they looked down; Mrs B. then touched him as if to say you must tell it, and he looked at her as if to entreat her to do it for him. Then she hid her face and showed with the finger downwards. And I thought it possible the ship might have been wrecked and the old people only saved. I therefore asked Mr Isenberg at Bombay to telegraph to me about the ship: and on the 24th of June we heard that the ship was off Brighton But on the 28th we read in the Home news that only 8 children arrived with the Bührer's, then Dr Brett was quite sure his Johny must have died and he suffered much from it. We comforted him but thought it very possible our David when playing the wild horse may have jumped down the hatchway, or even tumbled overboard. Now we praise the Lord Jesus who will have brought you safely to your 2 brothers and no doubt gladdened your hearts by the visit of the big brothers and dear sister 
Please dear boy, learn to believe in Jesus who loves children so much.  Your Papa

