Mrs Gundert, Magalore

 Ponany 13 Aug 57
My dear wife

On the 10th I think I wrote the last letter we had then a big dinner for Drs Cleghorn and Williams Major Haly etc. Thomas had settled with me to have afterwards prayer. This was carried out, few condescendg to kneel down. Talked with Thomas till 2 AM, then a little sleep, farewell from Clemons who is to visit his uncle at Coonnoor, and on horseback off to Kuttipuram. I had sent Changara one day before me (Now glad he was to find the harvest over and rice cheaper) went at last a little astray as the way ends in a path had to gather up a horseshoe, as the way is very rocky, reached Dixon's bangalow 10 1/2 AM. But all very tidy, nobody present. D was at Calicut and Beypor. I paid in the evening my visit to the wretched convert Paul Sabapati, whose wife has been baptized by Hebich. The rascal tells her, she had no business to turn Christian, his friends advise him to be reconciled to his caste, and he hopes she will soon be driven away, by his bad treatment when he can continue his connexion with a dancing girl. Dixon came 6 P.M. riding a quicker pace than I in the morning (I had at last led the horse). Very warm reception. Had to stay - no way to get out of it - because no bearers nor boat to be had except Dixon's jolly which was only got ready for me 12th 10 PM An uncovered little boat, very light to resist wind and rain, and ignorant boatmen who had to get out and drag me over the sandbanks. Arrived perfectly wet this morning about 4 AM, slept an hour on a door which I unhinged in the old bangalow, then Kilroy came and took me to his house. Betsy little developed, still full of remembrance ("Eddy, Vow, David") the blue mark very distinct, not yet touched upon - Kilr. evidently softened, since in Febr he lost his son near Bangalore whither he had sent him to finish his education. He says he was half mad about it. Now I am private Chaplain. - Was in School - 41 boys, nice fellows. Till Saturday D.V. here, then for Sunday to Cal.

Love to all and may the Lord keep you
 Yours in Him HG

