Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 15 May <57>*
My dear wife

This1 is only a scrawl from the Head master of the Engl. School here. They have their holidays all this month and I cannot see the school. Accordingly things look as if I might be back with you about the beginning of June. My schoolmasters from Trevandram have not arrived. Perhaps they donot come at all or before the Monsoon draws to its end. I have seen Robinson who is very warm on the subject of schools and friendly too to my person, but I fear very much estranged from the one thing needful. I have not yet found a Mal writer and will now write to Tell for one. Saw Dr Schmidt and wife yesterday evening, pretty nice - at least we had no fight, the old Dr fancies to be near the end of his career.

The overland is in, but no letters here. We are very anxious to hear about Christ. Irion who the last time when letters went off had the croup. May the Lord have spared his parents the grief of parting with him. Love to all When shall we hear of dear HK's arrival. Now the Lord will care for it all  Yours HG.

If I can I write tomorrow a scrap to the children



2Mr Robinson Esq.

My dear Mr Robinson

I have made my arrangements for leaving this to-morrow morning on another short trip*, but as I am very anxious to see Dr. Gundert, I shall of course put off my departure till after his visit. I suppose it will not be inconvenient to him to come to me to-morrow, but if it should be I could easily drive down to Calicut to see him.

 Yours sincerely
 Edward Thonbee*

S...Hill*
Thursday Evg.

