1Revd S. Hebick, Cannanore

 Cann. 13 Nov 57
My dear wife

Yesterday evening walked to Chomb. arrived before sunset. Diez was soon resolved to accompany me about 10 o'clock. This we did in Micah's boat and arrived this morning 3 AM at Cann.

Mimi very well. Lydia is widow, her mad husband Luke having died a few days ago. On account of the building there is still considerable difference. Diez quite sure of his own way. - Here the 5 new brethren very nice indeed for the first look. Convert will bring you my Ernst's portrait. Of the children's photograph they know nothing.

Just a steamletter that the Youngs arrived safely in Engld, he suffered on the way but was pretty well.

C.M's don't like their house at all, say nothing to Heb but will speak to Fritz. Glasson would probably have been converted if he had stopped here. The Brig. still very much estranged. I saw Hault. and had a nice talk with him; - he finds Th. generally unsatisfactory, obstinate etc and has so far done with him. He will not judge me it seems for taking another view. Dixon will write from the hills I think to Th. and explain what he thinks of him. Both H. and D. cannot find that Th. had ever much brotherly intercourse with them. They thought him of a very different spirit, talking so much of duty etc

But the Taylor's are very nice he came out with it all at once. Only now the veil taken away - broken with the world etc. They should have liked much to see you on the way down the coast. She is very tender, you feel how her heart is touched, when Jesus is mentioned. - The 3 brethren left Engl about 15 Oct in a screwsteamer via Cape. Just now a steamer comes in here with troops from Europe Good bye love to brethren etc
 Yours HG

Love to brethren etc

