Dr. H. Gundert, Depy Insp. of schools, Calicut.

 Mangalore 19th May 57
Dear papa

Yesterday evening I received yours of the 15th letters are rather long now going or coming therefor you had not had the home news which were sent you on wednesday! but I wonder you had not heard of Mr Kaundinya arrival however now you have every thing.

The little Theophil Hoch has been poorly lately he has under the left arm or rather on the side the formation of an apces the Dr is somewat anxious, he thought a change would do him good so they have sent him here with his nurse Maria <später Frau Haller>* Mama comes now and then to see him. he had a good night coughs only a little now and then We had rain the whole night and though Mr K. and Pf say that it is not the monsoon it looks very much like it. Kaundinya has just left for Bolma he is well and very happy and chearful. As I told Joseph he must prepare himself to go by land for there is no hope of going by sea any more "he said I have written to Mr. Hebich and wait for the answer." Mr Pfl has now settled the coolies and he must go to morrow.

I hear that Major Carr is coming back at the end of the month as he cannot get leave. So you may perhaps come back to gether! Since you can not see the schools now you will probaby to go again? Apropos yesterday there came a present of Mangos with a petition from Mrs Briton begging you would kindly recommand her husband for the work of Tellichery, their son has been turned out of the work he had at the post office if you can say a word to Mr Robinson do.

Keiler is not well on sunday he kept the bed. Theophil <Hoch>* is singing beautifully and looks already better than when he came, the only fear is that the apses might open in side which might cause the death of the child. Yesterday came a letter from Mrs Muller of Stutgard she says that she has a real joy to see our boys who came more often to her than formerly. She says you would have laugh if you could have seen your brother Ernst trying to learn Malayalam as he was there on Christmass! We know nothing farther about Christian Irion. The Maynes have offered their Bangalow to the Hochs the Dr tells me, they paid a visit there yesterday and found her so pale and looking so poorly that this morning they were to send word to them to come up; but I do not believe they will accept of it; for she must be at school.

I am thank God well and ashamed to have been somewhat iritated at the Deggelers staying here. I wonder where they are and how they will proceed to the hills with the monsoon

Aman left this yesterday at noon

With love to all
 Yours
 Julie Gundert

