Dr. H. Gundert, Deputy Inspector of Schools, Manontoddy

 Calicut 17th Nov 1857

Dear papa.

I have to thank you for yours of sunday 15th just now received with an other large paquet from our dear children, of two monthes at once Sept. Oct. Altogether good news thank God Marie already in heaven from joy to come to us. I do not send them to you for I do not know if this will reach you; as you have not told me any thing about sending to Mananttodey. However in hope I will send this. It is indead sad that there is so little life in many of the workers in the Viniard of the Lord as you say it is there. So poor Mrs Mul is very much the same I fear from what you say Pour Marie was greatly greived when she heard that she should perhaps stay longer on account of Mutiny. By the letter of Mr Ostertag I see that having waited for the next news from India which were good Marie was to leave Stutgard on the 19 Oct to go to Bale and embark on the first Nov with Mrs. Hauff etc From Herman two long letters, from Samuel the same. From Frederic a long one too, Paul not so long, David still less only I like to write you and send plenty kisses. Miss Cul says that David "learns German very quick; but Elas forgets english" "he is very happy and also obedient". Paul asked her after a preaching whether one can also be converted at the 11 hours that is 5 minutes before diying? when he heard that one can if God gives grace he said well I will till that time and now amuse myself and enjoy the world! Also a few lines of Bührer not many news he was going to see our boys or meet them at some meetings.

Aldinger had a long letter from the Inspector he says nothing but that they willingly let him marry Your writer is very sorry to have no work as he has copied he sais all what you had marked in the big book: Lauffer seemes to be working very dilligently and is usually in a great perspiration Mrs. Schmidt has not yet paid back the visit, if she had I would have invited the young ladies to spend a day in order to see some what of them. Of Glassen I see nothing since Fritz left. He was not altogether mistaken about Lange. He moreover said as Gl asked him whether he was going to the meeting "I just as well go to it and so kill the time" He has been desapointed in a lady it seems that has made him so fond of solitude and disgusted with the world! From Missi a small note saying that she feels very lownely since we have left and is glad to have the piano to chear her a little when she is very dark. Mrs Hoch writes also a rather warm and affectionate letter. 
Mrs Muller's wool is perhaps in Pfleiders box. A letter in a very thik envelope came for Mr Lechlar 9 as postage I keep it till you come. There was also one for Heinrich which Aldigen will send him. Three Mercur, cost 2 as each postage alltogether 3 Rs. Tomorrow week I hope you will be able to read these good news if God brings you back on the day you expected just three weeks absent

It has been very hot here, now there are thunders I hope the rain will not take you on the road! but hope we shall get some here. Aldinger told me that Mrs Fritz death was a great blessing to Irion for since that he has been very different twards all She also seems to be more earnest and prays often! He thinks that the brother who is coming to Mangalore for the Institution Fing or what will go to Tellicherry.

Now with best wishes and love
 Yours aff
 Julie Gundert

