 Tellicherry 24 May <57>*

My dear wife

Many thanks for your letter which just arrived before the service this morning. I preached Mal. to a rather attentive assembly. For 2 days I have inspected the school, which is a real progress upon our former attempts. - Degg's have yesterday morning gone off to Chomb - stupidly enough they sent the hired bandy beyond Mahe, and took Irion's oxen and bandy so far. One of them returned lame. Also here the impression he made is very sad. Of his wife I saw hardly anything. Chr Müller is also very downcast and not much, compared with what he was: very nervous and tremblg before everything that is to be done. I wonder how all is to be carried on as matters stand now: his people all resting on him for their livelihood!

Mrs Bühl's is more cheerful than her letters generally are.

I never heard a word of Carr staying with the Youngs, I thought of course the Brigr would have taken him to his house. Now I have announced myself to the Youngs and do not know how to get elsewhere. Yg invited me. Diez also wrote a few friendly lines. Heb. waits at Cann. till I come. 
Herre had at first some fights with Irion he wanted to take the school altogether, fancying himself equal to all the duty. There followed of course a time of great dejection and he is now only too glad to have some lessons taken off his hands by Irion and Aldinger.

My health is good enough but I am getting thin - all spirit, matter decaying, as you will see to your surprise. Even Mrs Degg thought she saw it. So it ought to be true.

Visited Chatfield on Friday, was glad to see Miss Ch. who indeed looks nice. In the evening Brennen. Still the old man, but rather pleased to see me. Lenele very much like her brother William. Mrs Irion I think very well, though perhaps not extra strong.

Mglg wrote me a letter just now. On Saturday evening I hope to get to Mang. and think of leaving here a box with contents

Love to all
 Farewell
 yours HG.

