 Cann 21 Aug 57

My dear wife

Just now a 2d letter from you, after I had yesterday evening on my arrival from Tell. received yours with the enclosures of the children. Very nice as far as it goes; I can see Frederick so full of joy that the family surrounds him like a wall. I wonder however that your letters are 5 days coming from Mang to this. Yours of today is dated the 16th! - I am sorry if Carr is to go so soon. If they waited for the opening of the sea they might be just as well in time as by hurrying off now. I hope you write your name for 20 upon the list of the Mang. poor, who are to be supported in the present dearth. - Of course faith is riches, and nothing else. Have God for you and you cannot feel poor. Have ever so much money, and you still feel it might be lost by some mishap or other, and therefore must care to invest it in newer and safer ways, without ever being able to assure your heart, that now all is right. Oh what a great thing to be settled in these matters, so that nothing can come amiss.

The Sauvains are dreadfully afraid, but as they say, not for themselves, but she for him, and he for her. The Brigadier very stouthearted and careful at the same time to take every precaution in proper season. Mrs Rolston nicer than before. Heb thinks her considerably nearer Cat Abraham and Dorcas I saw on the road coming from Tell. very cheerful. Also dear Stockg came jumping down from the wall. Here is Daniel from Palghout, to look after his brother Joseph, who lies about here to no purpose.

Fr Müller wrote to Irion that Herm was full of feelings in the Kinderhaus, Saml more quiet and silent: he thinks Mary very young. Huber laughed heartily that Bührer in his public speeches mentioned his wife's diarrhoea and other stories not over necessary - but altho' speaking slow he did well. - I hope to make all ready here for leaving on Monday and hope to be with you Tuesday evening by the good hand of our God over you. Martin it seems has paid for West at least as much as Hebich had laid out, but this is a secret. Old West is to commence a journey soon.

Dobbie writes from Birmah - they are happy at Thayetmoh or what the name is. Hart to join them soon as leader. Mrs Hodgson in Europe quite restored. Now farewell and may the Lord direct all for the best
 Your HGdt

