 Calicut 16 Aug 57

My dear wife

It is now 10 PM, but I had an hour of sleep in the afternoon which I required after a nearly sleepless travelling night. In the morning Fritz preached as also in the afternoon: just now we concluded the Sunday with a meeting which Dr Crocker attended. Robinson's with Dr Cleghorn paid a short visit after their Churchgoing. Rob had been at Malapuram to see Major Haly off. It was at one time feared he would hardly go and the Police Corps were half distressed and half angry with his being taken away. But the Civilians are glad he is gone, as he was rather a dangerous way with his free manners and abundant quarrels. - Mrs Fr. had fainting fits even during last week, but is better now, the baby well, Adele crying a good deal from toothache. - It was stupid Domingo (Mary's husband) now a Peon who thought I was gone to Cann. and told the Postmaster accordingly so that I shall have to wait some days before I get the letters of last week. Still I wonder that you addressed no letter to me at Ponany. My plans are now - Wednsday at Vadagara and Chombala, Thursday Tellich. From Friday to Monday examine the Cann. Engl school. If all goes as I now imagine, I may be back next Tuesday. I hope to write a line to Mr Binny about bearers. - Here the prisoners of one gang about 20 Maplas rose against the peons, but were so much cut up as to give in before one could make his escape. No letters from Basle here, altho' Bosshd got one from his relations. Diez will go to Chombala about the time I leave Cannanore. Hebich and C. Müller appear to have come to a perfect understanding.

of Mang. nobody knows anything I think it possible I may be delayed one day at Vadagara, but would then pass quicker thro' Tellicherry, if I can have it my own way. Perhaps tomorrow brings me a letter and some news of Mrs Hoch and others: or even the long expected letter from Basle about the 6. - I have told Dixon that Haultain has certainly been too hard in his judgment on E.C.G. Thomas, and D. will try and see H. at Coimbatore or there abouts, to put matters on a better footing than they are now. As for our Mang. Thomas, Rob. fears he is not quite right in his mind; his brother agrees at least in finding him very hasty, but he thinks very highly of Mme. 
May the Lord keep you in perfect peace and enable you to do your work with some joy and a little foretaste of abiding fruit.
 Yours HG.
