Dr. H. Gundert, Mangalore

3d December 25th 1857

Dear Papa.

On the 23 I have sent you the Telegraph with a few lines, Richter will have told you all his feelings of love and tenderness to the Lady the very moment he saw her. He got from the Mam a welcome yes and invitation to which he replied most wormly saying entre autre many flatteries I find Armelle truly converted and able to make me happy! He is full of yoy and the most happy man. She is much quieter than he, and looks truly nice. She said to him as he sat by her alone I feel unworthy to be cald to labour for the Lord! the whole family is enchanted with him. Armella asked him. "Why do you call Mr Moegling your father in Christ according to a letter you wrote to Mrs G." He then said that he had been converted by him, at which she was highly astonished saying "I could not have believe that a Missionary comes out unconverted"! It is a good things that she goes to Mrs Moeg for the Mama has given leave that she may soon go to stay at Almonda till the marriage!

Comparing Robinson with Richter the zeale and fire of the first is much more to my taste, the last speaks much of the Lord; but it is still a terrible mixture between the world, and has a very great idia how he stands in the opinions of other specially of the great people what ever they may be he is still light and little knowledge of his own heart I expected something more after his letter; but as the old Mama finds all what she wants in him it is enough; may Armella have grace to be a blessing to him and keep him!

Yesterday evening Mrs Robinson the two Miss Philips the whole family Schmid and Mrs Bean came to see the little presents of the girls. Mr. Richter seamed anxious that his whole party should take tea which also they did. He feels that they all sit round and look at him as at the elder brother and first in the family! complete hapiness! nothing at all wanted! As he said so I said yes some thing wanted A settled and quiet mind! Mrs Bean expressed her great grief to have missed our visit the other day; had she known we were there how glad would she have sat with us! but she neither saw our carriage nor understood what the Vandy man meant to say! She was thankful for my invitation to come. She is going to Paulghot with him. My thanks to dear Mr Pfleiderer for his kind note just received. He has heard nothing about Cacao, try by all means to buy fruits at Mangalore here nothing is to be got. Also kindly bring a lamp for Convert with a foot of metal like for Fritz. Also a hut made in the mission like yours for C here is the measure of the head if there is nice wex cloth buy it too none here. Thanks for yours from Can. that was a good idia to go in, this day you are perhaps at M. there are* was good wind at night! No Mercur perhaps Marie bring them. 
Just now evening comes a telegraph message from Moegling about the party having arrived at Bombay Rich is the whole day in his brides house. Have you heard or seen any thing of Hanna Carrs woman

 Love to all
 yours J. Gundert

Boshart is expected to morrow morning and Harry next week. You have I hope arrived to day at M.

