Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 17 May 57
My dear wife

Yesterday evening at last the letters came - a whole bundle with yours of the 13th. In a few days I hope to leave Cal. and be at Tell. till the end of this week. At Mang D.V. in the beginning of June.

Your news about HK Nahum Degg's etc all very welcome. - I also believe that they were so wise at Basle as to keep the wish about Marie perfectly secret. But the boys knowing of it will soon give her a hint. O. writes that she is clever enough, but feels unhappy. She is not yet "confirmed", not yet settled in her manners. Of course to you (Mama) it would be very gratifying, in many things she might be a help. But God only can give a clear idea of what ought to be done. Any how he will speak with Josenhans about it, and do his best to fulfil our wishes. - He says nothing that could make the least impression on me. But by this time of course they know at Basle that I am in the Educl Dept and there will then be no more any question about the propriety of acceding to our request. - Yesterday I saw Baynes, old Billy of the Perfect. Heard little about Mrs Groves, but her sister Mrs Jarrardis dead. B. will not be converted tho' he admits that religious people may be more happy than he and his like. Haultain writes him "heaps of letters" he says but no impression. - With Dr Drew's I had a fine hour. They listen attentively. - Friday I paid my visit to the 4 gentlemen on the hills. Heard from Mrs Robinson, that Mrs Conolly is now better, her insanity giving way. Strange to say, it had taken this form that she lamented to be so poor, feared she could no more educate her children, whilst she has Rs 2000 a month! Quite like poor Vaughan you will remember. Today I am to preach Mal. So will say good bye and may the Lord bless you richly also today
 Yours HG.

Don't address me Dep. Inspr etc when I am on our old acquainted stations 
