Dr. H. Gundert, Hoobly, Mission house

 Mangalore 6th Oct 57
Dear Papa

Nothing as yet from you! you must have been very long on the Pattimar. This morning came a few line from Madras here is the copy "We are in receipt of your letter of the 21st Inst; but we will not act upon the instructions therein given respecting an investiment, until we receive your reply to ours of the 16th inst We regret to state that the Accountant General does not feel competent to comply with the application which we made to him"  Arbuthnot
 or what?

Yesterday 18 books came for you all or* in great part stories about Switzerland. Haller seems to be rather cross <cast down>, I have not gone down to day, the missionary meeting was so so no M Grigor; but Gompertz say it is all right. We cannot use our Vandy till it is repaired so I shall not go to the meeting this evening, here you have a letter of Diez, one from her too, no news.

Poor Luck Elisabeth son has run off She is greatly distressed; he has perhaps gone to Moolky one does not know. After a few days Mercia is to go to Mercara at least if Mrs Moegling will take her. The other day when Gompertz was talking in his house with some young officer one of them said I was vexed and sorry to see in the report of the Mission two years ago About S Muller who has a bad name amongst officers that the Mission says about him or at least the writer of the report We are very sorry to loose brother Muller! how can they speak so of such a man!

Wednesday at last a letter from you many thanks for it. I shall see about Anna s letter how is her mind!

Kaudinya is not yet gone for Aman has not come his last letter to Pfleiderer was to contremand the bearers if they had been posted; because he had a little fever. So one does not know any thing about Kaundinya journey. 
Now I have no more time. It is time for the post so I say Adieu 
 With love
 Yours Julie Gundert

