Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

4. Cunenculam 10 May 57

My dear wife

Friday evening I passed with the Cullin's and again liked her. He also was most friendly, talked much of Mrs Young and sisters, having been acquainted with the O Connells for a long time. Lawson (once visitor at Cann.) was there with his younger brother, who got somewhat irritated with me for taking him to task. I had to close with prayer, Whiteh. reading a Psalm before the end. - Saturday (9) regular Monsoon weather I visited yet Whitehouse and d'Albedhylls after my work in the school house had been over (about noon) and started 3 PM, expecting rain on the way - but not a drop has fallen since I left Cochin. At Pallipuram the boatmen rested and ate their rice, when I being mistaken in y... newly made gown for a Roman bishop received the most amusing homage of several RCatholics passing by - and one of them secretly offered to provide me with an evening drink (_____________________________) without any one observing it. Landed at Chetwa not before sunrise - was at 8 AM with the dear Beutlers and was glad to preach once more Malayalam after he had read the prayers. He has some nice people here and in the neighbourhood - and went just now in the afternoon to Puducheri where he has a regular service with newly awakened Tears (or Chegons as they call them here). We are also talking of David whom B. saw yet at Cochin. David and Fritz's girls were the only 2 that asked him to take them ashore, as they preferred to remain in India Johnny Brett was very quiet, playing with Bühr's girls Mrs B. now and then a little excited and quick: and he tempted to eat what he knew beforehand would not well agree with him. David knew Beutler still from his visit in 54. The Whitehouses that went home with them very gentle and kind with oldish children. Now farewell, love to all
 Yours HGdt

In Calicut I hope to find a letter

