 Hubli 12 Oct <57>*

Liebe Frau

Gestern früh kam ich hieher what a stupidity I write German. Yesterday morning I arrived here for service in Canarese I did not preach however nor catechize in the afternoon. It was a nice quiet Sunday. You would also have enjoyed it. May the Lord soon increase the Church assembly here a youth has been added last week, who looks promising. We have here much rain - therefore slow movements. I got your letter yesterday evening - with Diez's enclosure. Wrote yesterday a word to the Kinderhaus: and a letter to Stuttgd but not much of course in this hurry. Saw here the Depy Inspr of Schools for So Mahratta. Not very interesting. Also Ade the Germ. merchant for a moment. I hope the Mgl's will take Mercia; if H. marries her he ought first to ascertain on what station he will be received with her. But the Lord will settle that matter any how - let us be always ready to hear his voice. Also here they have cares f.i. Leonberger is to be ordained, but his spiritual life appears very undecided as you know. To leave him dependent on Würth for all Church functions is also not agreeable. So they will see what Heb's visit may effect. At Dh. the effect was rather deathlike - so very still and without movement. The younger brother Handrich did a sermon to the English in August, which brought on him the reprimands of Collector, Police Magistrates etc There was an intimation even of treasonable passages in the grand sermon. But the good fellow is now ashamed of it and confesses it was done from pride and selfelevation. Kaufm is very shy, has heard from his bride and expects her with the Hauff's. Thursday night I may be at Sircy and about Monday the 19th at Coompta ready for a Pattimar if one is to be found. The Müller's hope you will also one day come up. The Lord keep you all and give us some poor sinners to rejoice with us now and evermore  Yours HG

