 Mangalore 23d Oct 57
My dear Frederic

I do not exactly remember if I have to write to you or to Paul. I wrote to David last I know; But now nevermind, let me thank you for your last of August which gave me much pleasure. I am always very glad when I see a letter from you and your brothers; So you are the little papa of David I am much rejoiced to hear you are kind to him and ready to give him your own; but my sweet David must not be so exigent he must also learn to give his own things to others. I have not yet heard whether he is obedient; but I do hope so, if he loves he will be obedient and he likes very much himself to be loved. The Dear Paul was sick when you wrote I trust he is quite well now! Tell David that the dogs are well and very big now and very pretty. I keep only bella with us We have two very pretty calves of the Arabichi cows. I have sold the pullichi cow

Dear papa is away now since three weeks, he should have returned already but as he comes back by sea he cannot very quick because there is no good wind as soon as he comes we will have to g[o to] Calicut where we shall stay for some time because Mr Fritz wishes to have us t... take care of the school and of his two little girls who have no more a mother. Tell dear Marily Fritz that I shall with Gods grace take great care of her little sisters ... of the native girls for whom her dear mama was so kind! After 2 month I hope dear Marie will be with us at Calicut and help me in the school! Herman is still writing t... long letters about you three! Did you try to pray my sweet Frederic that God would help you to learn. I think very often of you my precious boys. My joy would be very great if I could hear that you pray to God, that you love Him and his holy word! 
Now my very dear boys I send you a tender kiss; probably you get nothing from papa this time. I have sent him your letters; but I fear he has not yet got them

 your affectionate Mama
 Julie Gundert

