 1Cal. 31. Oct 57

My dear Mr Chamier

Your favor of the 20th Inst. came just in time to accompany me to this place, where I could hear what Mr Fritz's views are as to the subject alluded to. I had in fact intended to lay on him the task of replying to your letter as he had undertaken to move again this unlucky question of uniting the 2 Mal. versions. He now also agrees with me (as he has already done in former years), that the time for carrying out this project has not come. 
Our reason for coming to this conclusion is neither a captious opposition to the old version, nor a foolish fondness for our own production. It lies not in the very slight differences pointed out by Mr P. in the technical terms adopted by each party nor are the provincial dialects to blame. Cooperation has become hopeless simply from the undisguised indiscriminate2 contempt with which the writings of us Germans are viewed by some of the brethren in the South.

You may discover marks of this spirit in the letter of which you sent me a copy. Why should the language as spoken "at Cannanore and those parts" be corrupted by neighbourg sister languages? Will The writer be so good as to say which are "the neighbouring sister languages" that corrupted it: Cannanore as you know lies not at the extremity of the Mal. country and it is only at Casergode that Tulu begins to mix with it and Coorg and Canarese do not descend the Ghauts. The* writer has avoided to ... point out one word in our version which is taken from those sister languages and not extant in Malayalam. If he says that our plural for Gods "correspds with T." I would ask any T. scholar in ... He indeed calls __________ a Tamil word: but surely cannot mean* to deny its being Malayalam as well as T. 
We have, all of us, learned Malayalam from the natives of the country - not Syrians or other halfforeigners, but Hindoos, well acquainted with the poetry both of even North Malabar and Travancore and we believe rediculous as it may appear that we are as profound Mal. scholars as our critics in the South I mean to say But this much so true in the charge that some Sanscrit terms adopted by Mill in the Christa Sengita and by our brethren in the Canarese Mission have been
