 Mang 28 Dec <57>*

My dear wife

Today overland mail, but no letters from Basle The Parsee says the party 2 gentlemen and 3 or 4 ladies landed on the 21st whereas you received the telegram only on the 23de - the baggage was conveyed to their houses the same day - all live with Isenberg. Kaufm. laments they will probably not leave Bomb in Dec but I hope they will as ordered by Pfleid make every possible haste I hope also that tomorrow some letter or other will come and give us news from Bombay direct. About Cacao Pfl knows nothing. Hadn't you written to Marie about it? Grapes etc can be easily got I have got also a hat for C. - What is that "Harry is expected next week" I know of no Harry. Of Hanna <(Carrs)>* I hear that she lives with her brother - nothing else - I enquire but nobody takes the matter in hand, and I myself don't like to appear too anxious about it so matters are in a slow progress of manifestation. - Young Thomas I have not visited. Heb went to see him and was called by him a mischief maker. Now I don't want such thanks and rather avoid getting them. - Saw Fisher this morning. More distant I suppose than even before his going home. - He does not care much about education, consequently the Tahsildars are rather careless about it if not directly hostile. - Yesterday I preached in Tamil to 8 or 10 people - dined with Degg's and talked with him, he is the old fellow without any determination or desire for work, spending the day in absolute idleness. She really nice. Gompertz and the Dr <Brett>* came up in the evening. The former thinks of going to the hills or somewhere else on Sick Certificate - being rather poorly and overworked. Nice letters from Goddard and McGrigor. The former is much more calmed down. That case which Thompson and Mayne decided against the Mission, was at Madras given in its favor (concerning the Sandalwood of that native merchant). All send plenty Selam So do I to every one  Yours HG

