 Sircy 16 Oct 57
My dear wife

On the 9th at least you ought to have got my first Ancola letter, but I hope that by and bye you got nearly every day something. Your letters to me came all in time, so that I cannot complain. I shall D.V. be back by the middle of next week. Dear Goddard wished to see me here on the 21st, but I could not stay so long. The school here is but a poor concern. Dear G. is deeply tried. The woman tries all to upset his mind and laughs at his distress. Of his health he speaks not a word. - With Mrs M. you were probably too plain, at least in her husbands view. But I am glad you said so much. - Carr will I hope go on seeking and knocking - to me his state does not look satisfactory - something feverish and unconnected about him. I wished he was just low and lying at the foot of the cross. - There are few things in Haller which discourage me more than his misplaced familiarity with those that cannot profit him. He seems quite blind about this. And Then always the talk of doing something for the Lord. The Lancasters also seem to keep quite aloof from Heb. - Did you hear that Mrs Binder <Pfarrfrau in Amstetten bei Ulm>* the mother of those 3 deaf and dumb children has fallen asleep in the Lord. - Strobel does not quite like the aspect of things at Tell. and as for the Sauv's, Heb. was on the point of excluding them from the Lord's Supper So much they are against him. Give my love to the dear Dr <Brett>* and tell him yet to jog on because yet a little while and ....1 It will soon be over with our travellings, separations and disappointments: and I for one wish rather to have yet a moderate allowance of trouble and labour, in order afterwards to enjoy the rest the more. Tell Hoch his Vencatarao teaches here: and he behaves well enough. When you get this I may be in Coompta, but you could no more answer it.
 Yours affly HG

Love to dear HK and all others

