Dr. H. Gundert, Depy Inspr of schools, Cochin1, Mangalore

 Mangalore 7th May 57
Dear papa

Yesterday I have sent <6th> you my first letter. Mr. Hebich did not leave on the evening as I have told, He left this morning, Wednesday. The Tuesday meeting was in in Mr Gompertz's house. Heb spoke on Mathew 18th after one has been converted how one has to humble oneself and become a little child; it was very nice; fine dresses and the peacock were not forgotton, there were rather few people not the Balls nor Mrs Boesinger he was there. At the Missionary meeting he spocke strongly on the necessity of giving to the Mission, so next day Mr Gom. sent 200 Rs one hundred for the Anjercandy people 50 for this place 50 for I do not remember. The Dr also gave some thing! Now Heb. who had left at 4 O.C has come back at 8 - no one will go to sea two boats which have tried to go were upset so Hebich will go by land. Major Carr will wait one or two days till one can go to sea. The wind is just now very good and you are perhaps near Cochin already. 
At last Mr Hebich got his bearers about 3 O'C and went his way 
Mr. Deggeler was pretty well yesterday; but to day less so the Dr said that he ought to go at once on the Hills.

Mr Hunziger who was trying to separate Pfleiders dog which was fighting with an other one got a rather severe biting on the hand though the dog is not mad the Dr burned it at once. after a few days he will be well again he is already better. Miss Will came to spend the day as usual she was rather friendly with Mr Hebich. Almost all the women came to pray to day. No news from any quarter what ever, I thought Kaundinya would have written about the horse to meet him. Thursday Hoch had a few lines from Kaund. no news; but that he cannot get coolies to come back because of the regiment's mouving. Major paid a visit yesterday evening he will also go by land and stay at Cannanore till he knows about his leave of six month whether he can have it or no Yesterday evening there came a letter from Madras Pf will send it you to day. I am rather glad Johan did not go with you for he is so dirty in all what he does and so stupid that I shall be glad to get rid of him. The Deggelers will take him it seems if they go on the Hills. 
When you go to Calicut forget not to speak to Mr Robinson about those people the Custon house menager who recomanded himself you know Mr Briton or what! I have no news to give you; but I suppose that you get plenty from every quarter and have plenty to do. May God help you and strenghen you by his Holy presence. To day I have I think found out why I have not been blessed for a long time, I made too little of the word of life I have not my delight in it as I used some time to have. Whats the use to preach it to others if my own soul does not feed upon and grows by it: how much there is still in me to be cast away and to be healed what an hypocrit I am still, the other day at the meeting I felt very sleepy and slept now and then; but when Hebich turned on the side where I was I very quickly opened my eyes as wide as I could, this is but a small instance of this wicked spirit. Still I must believe that one day I shall have the victory over the spirit of lie and untruth!

Now good bye I go to the Drummers' wives
 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

