 Mang 31 Dec 57

My dear wife

Today I am in the strange case of having to answer 2 letters of yours. Best thanks. Before this you will have received the children's letters read to you I trust by dear Fritz. I answer at once to Stuttg, therefore could not write to you yesterday. The letters will henceforth go 4 times a month, and you ought to make up your mind for writing more frequently. - Christ Sarasin, the Committee's presidt is sick unto death. - Mörike, Minchin etc learn to spell! I have ordered the soap and heartbooks. The other things I hope to do, but with a servant whom you cannot trust it is a hard thing to have to look thro' big boxes etc. I hope however to do my best. - Dr Brett rather more cheerful and steady than before, Gomp. and he live together in Carr's house. McGr is at Cann. Goddard comforted by the Lord, altho' his last expedition has been perfectly unsuccessful. I know no particulars except that in 2 days he went to and back from Sadasheghar, prob. to meet Capt Taylor. Carr at last gone on active service towards Palamow, near Shergotty.

As for the bull don't make difficulties, but send it. Why ask me about money etc I am merely desired to send it, and I wish that it be done soon. If it comes soon I may perhaps arrange that it be kept here during the Monsoon.

It is probably Floyd you have seen. He is indeed a fine soul, (a soldier, not a solger).

Saw Mrs Handibo this morning, inviting her to the Communion this evening if she will come. She is rather nice: I mean not so sure of being all right, but rather doubtful - Nancy whom I also visited sees little of her, thinks her unsettled, more anxious about her husband than about her soul. I made a proposal to Pfl to engage Nancy as headservant or person of confidence for the Hauff's who are to be at the Hoch's. Degg's go probably home, the poor man is always the same, cannot bear to hear the young brethren preach and will not do any service however asked. I hope Heb makes haste to get him a passage, he will become chief heir of a rich old uncle, and then may reimburse the Comm. for what he costs them. Since I spoke of going home he gets coats etc made and is anxious to procure the most modern musters, smiles again and makes his wife a little more comfortable.

Missy is very shortspoken (and late in bed!) I get little out of her. Hauser came in and speaks of his Utchila people more hopefully. Titus the Excatech. lives with a heathen girl, cheats right and left, and has given up holdg meetings; so all the people are gradually coming over. But Jonath and Nath are the old pious rogues. Hebich had 1 day's fight with them. Bührer is quite wrong in fancying them to be too severely treated. Hoch I see lives at Coonoor. - Nobody invites me to the Engl Church, so I doubt if I shall ever preach there. Kaund Plebst etc send plenty love
 yours HGdt

