 Mang 3d Oct 57

Dear Papa

Though I have no news I will not send these without a few lines. I have been with Mrs Hoch till three then came to give the clothes to the boys and got these two letters for you there is an other large paquet from Ponanny, Mr Kaundinya sais it is not necessary to send it to you.

Mrs. Hoch is doing well and so is the little girl she is excedingly small. she is to be baptised tomorrow. Mr Plebst thought himself much honored and beloved to be asked as God father As for me I see no honor nor regard to be God mother! The mad woman who was here the other day you remember who wanted to sit at our table wrote a letter to K. saying that the revelation was most surely from God the Spirit told it to her "her husband is not her husband she is to come at Balmata and be with K. when he read the letter Hoch told him he would do well to show her the stick, so the next day as she came he said what do you want, she said has not my letter told you. So he gave her 5 stripes with the ratend*. The next day as I was down she came and complained and charged Mr Hoch with the greatest serieu that he was to give order to K to be five days fasting in the very spot where he did beat her else a very great curse would come on him.

The Moolki Josuah the father of our little Jacob has sent off his wife and children because she said that she could not go to hear the preaching of the Catechists; but wished to hear the missionaries! She is at Udapi and shall come to Mangalore.

Mrs. Mayn has made present to Mrs Hoch of three dozen bottles of wine with a very kind note.

This I had writen saturday and did not send ist: Now monday morning a letter of Mrs. Stanger Very glad to hear of Goddard's conversion shall be very glad to hear how he is going on farther and desire him many blessings. The shoes you brought from Can. to be sent by a men who is to go from here, many questions about Mrs. Fritz health and our children. I am going to write to her!

Yesterday Gompertz M'Grigore, Dr, Hoch drunk tea here. The first came to relate me how rejoiced he is at M'Grigore who is decided to follow the Lord Jesus, Saterday till midnight he had Gray and Dr Jauvet, the first will on his way pay a visit to Mr Hebich. The second said amongst other things looking at M Grigore what a strange thing that Goddard and this one should have been so changed by you; if you or anyone could tell me that my sins are pardened and give me peace I would do any penance required. Afterward he found fault with the Missionaries that they have got the best place here thats to say the best situation on the Hill, and I dont know what Gompertz said after some other words well Jesus has been poor enough in this world and walked humbly but you will not have him so the cause of the delay is not in others but in your own heart. - From Carr Gomtz heard that by a letter of Mr Ford one could see there is a change, he is able to acknowledge his faults and wrong against others So Carr sais this is the new Ford. The Dr spent the day with G. they had a good day in the conversation Hoch said it is a characteristick mark of the time that Christians are so devided to many things so little lively or still so much wordly. Gompertz smiled and said O no it is our own fault let every one of us abide faithfully in the Lord and have our hearts fully in the matter and we shall do by Gods grace as much as any one has ever done.

Yesterday's letter of Carr to G. sais that they were to leave on the 5th The company had not yet arrived; but was expected.

little Girl baptised Maria the whole was pretty nice I had said before hand that if it was done in the formal way I would give no answer. so it was a new way no question was put. We were all glad that the mad woman made no speach in church; for she had said that Kau was to bring the stick with which he flaged her; but in going out of chapel she stood on the door and caught him by the arm with her two hands when reproved by H. she said you have to marry to an other woman the man I was before he is not my husband," than H said what to do with you? Give me the person God will have me to have. Who is he? said H. The man to whom I wrote a letter; but she would not tell his name loud before all the people. So as she was making a very great noise before all Hoch put her in the godown and shat her up. 
The little bit of paper here joint was in the book which came yesterday that is in Drew s Memoir

Now dear papa I hope soon to hear from you. Here all as usual Mrs Hoch well and strong so is the baby

 With love
 Yours Julie Gundert

