 Mang 2 June <1857>*

My dear Marie

I cannot write much but I will thank you in haste for yours of the 2d March. It is something that you preferred a meeting to the Brandon, but these sacrifices are not yet the very best a broken heart and a contrite spirit and a cheerful return to Him from whom we so long a time have been running away, these are the things he likes. I wish you would give him this joy. - When you hear about coming to India - perhaps before the end of this year - what will you say? I hope you can thank God that He does your wish so quickly. But afterwards you will find that India is hot, the rain heavy and tiresome, the people whom one can have intercourse with, few and much occupied and altogether no rose without its thorn. Don't be disappointed! We shall try to do our best. Mama especially will strive to do wonders for you. For she fancies that she neglected you most shamefully and must now make amends for it. But when she will be nearly killing you with love and emotion, you must call for me and I will save you by pouring some cold water over your flames. Don't mistake me: I shall not mock, but hope now and then to amuse you, however stern I may from a distance appear to your imagination. In all truth I expect the Lord has joys and blessings in store for us and I do not doubt, you will also like their taste and give thanks in time to come. Now farewell

Give my best love to dear Uranie and all the good people about you and may God have you in His holy keeping
 Your Papa

