Dr H. Gundert, Cannanore, Mission house

 <13 Nov 57>*

Dear Papa

Along with these came one from Mr Pleiderer about account which I keep. None from our dear Children as yet; but they may still come. As these are just 3 as postage I send them without delay. Fritz left this, this morning at 4 o'cl Saturday, he was very sad and cast down as if he should not see the place again. Yesterday Mr and Mrs Wells colled here. The two younster Smidt too and drank tea.

I was so tired yesterday that I could not finish this and had some hope other letters might come; but it seems they have all been sent through Madras so we must wait a little longer. We had just now a good word from Aldinger; may the people have opened ears, and thurst and hunger; may we ourselves be always such we shall then taking from His fulness grace for grace have at all times have a word of life for all those we meet. The Lord is very Good to me; and makes the way smooth and easy. The beautiful prayer of Paul for the Ephe is also for us, may we know much of that exceeding greatness of his power working with in us and throug us to His praise and Glory. 
I just receive your two letters at once for which many thanks As I see by Mrs Moegs letter that we can send letters as formerly that is to say as written papers I send you all I have in that way and hope it will reach you at Cannanore all safe. I am much rejoiced to hear of Capt Taylor and his dear wife

I am very sorry to have buthered you with the box I should have left it come here without a word! pardon please. Love to all
 Yours affectly J. Gundert.

Aldiger got a few lines from Fritz very much cast down and low spirited I trust he will get better at T where just now they have a good time says Aldiger I had heard that the Muller do not like the house, there is plenty smoke said Glassen.

Did you know there was a talk or perhaps only a thought in Fritz to exchange this place for Chombala? I heard it from Albert1 it was perhaps he knew we would come! Now excuse this scribble from
 Yours aff J Gundert

