<Dr H Gundert, Depy Inspr of Schools, Cochin>1

 Balmata <4 May>1 <57>*
Dear Papa

This morning monday is very dark; when I awoke at 4 the sea made such noise that I got rather anxious about you. The patima man engaged by Major refuses to go as long as long as the weather is so uncertain yesterday Houser returned about 8 O c. deliverd his commission of Mr Fisher to Pf who executed it during the day. At ten I went down to Chapel with Pf at a quater past two it was over. Heb went then to Mrs. Walker and to the poor house; came for his diner at 4. mean while I wrote a small note to Mrs. Buhler. On the evening the whole party met here in the school room meating began at 7 preaching till 9. then Hoch prayed after ward Gompertz, Carr refused than Camerer Brett Houser in German as he woold or rather could not obey He, who said English English. then prayed Plebst; all did it rather short so that at half past 9 we began our tea Carr looked a little anoied; but more so Deggeler who run away before tea was over. The sea is roaring so fearfully I am quite frightened for you; Were it not that you are in our heavenly father's hand I would feel very uneasy.

In a letter of Kaundinya to my adress he says that Mrs. Moeg has been greatly distressed to hear of Joseph. Nahum is well again; they hope to be here next Saturday, Stephan's small boy has died not of the Cholera, No news besides he had heard from Plebst that Hebich was to leave this on past Saturday along with you I have just been at school; but no girls were there so I paid a visit to Mrs. Walker who is happy; but she asks very much after you, she took the Lord supper from Heb yesterday. On my way I met Major Carr who was just coming here he gave me 50 Rps. He had been told that your ship is not very far and that there is no danger to be at sea only no progres made forward is made, they have a mind to leave to morrow morning. I hope some body may go this evening to the top of the light house and look where you are. We have the missionary meeting you know. I have writen a few lines to Mrs Moegling. The horsekeeper has returned on sunday at noon. Theophil and Samuel did not come on Sunday, the first having headach, and there was rain!

Tusday morning. We had the missionary meeting not many people. Boesingers and Balls not. I felt very sleepy towards the end. The boat people would not go this morning; but promise to leave this evening. You have not gone very far Your ship was still in sight yesterday evening they say and during the night of monday you had retrograted of 2 miles.

