Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

 Cochin 7 May 57
My dear wife

I wrote yesterday a few lines, today not much more, for visits of Mr Cullin and to Mrs Cullin and to Mrs D'Albedhyll have taken up my time. Fisher left yesterday evening with the steamer which comes from Point de Galle and will therefore go via Bombay. I am glad for it, as he is rather nervous and might have had a tiresome passage to Ceylon. Tonight rain. A daughter of Mrs Cullen returned with the steamer after one year's absence - quite bloomy and cheerful. Dr Pringle went with Fisher to Bombay. Dr Leslie not yet arrived. Mr* Cullen murmured a few words about Dr Bre... that he did not answer a letter of his some months ago about Dr van Someren's becoming Secry of the Medical board. Mrs C. is a great invalid, but nice in spirit. I live now close to the schools in an upstair bangalo of the d'Albedhylls'. My intention is to pass Sunday at Cunnanculam, Monday with Dixon Tuesday Codacal, then Calicut. Therefore all letters to Calicut, from where I shall have to visit Malliapooram etc. - I spoke a good deal with Fisher who rather invited it, instead of finding fault with his unsteady faith, he rather looks upon it as the common lot of men, and therefore rather to be pitied than to be found fault with, and a strong faith looks to him rather suspicious. But he said also nice things T. listened to it as if he preferred to be a little aside.

A letter from Calicut announced the birth of Moerike's son. All well. It seems I may meet in Malabar with the Hodges. Farewell - love to all and may the Lord keep all that otherwise would go to pieces. What a wonderful thing that he should mind such as we are
 Yours HG

milk, bathing and other requisites for my comfort cannot yet be had comme il faut, but I am quite well, thin from penance on board the vessel and ready for long walks
