 Malupuram 8 Aug <57>*
My dear wife

No letter as yet from you. My plans are now to stop here till Monday when Robinson is to pay a visit to this and then to go on to Cuttipuram where Dixon is, and reach Ponani on Wednesday 12th. On the 16th or 17th I hope to return to Calicut, and soon as far as Badagherry where I shall have to establish another Talook School. Letters written the 15th or 16th may still be addressed to Calicut, afterwards to Tellicherry.

I like Thomas and find he makes progress, Haultain and Hebich have, I fear, demanded really more of him than he could conscientiously do. But Haultain though more decided a Christian, may become unjust from a wish to make everything nice and square in the T. family. Th. is quite on good terms with his father, and this surely is enough to prevent others from exacting more stringent terms from him as regards his position towards his father. 
I hope to visit Floyd this evening. He met me yesterday in the street and looks nice and earnest.

Dined yesterday with Thomas at Major Haly's; who is dismissed from this command in consequence of many dissensions with the Civil Authorities. Haly so far consented to meet Thomas again before going away, but he is very impatient under the sentence and will appeal to Govt etc

My schoolmaster here is better dressed than myself; poor fellow, he can hardly do with the salary I am enabled to give him! I wish I had to deal less with East Indians; it is they chiefly that want to become Schoolmasters.

Lieut Clemons here is a dear child of God - of very fine feelings, but rather narrow in many of his views. He knows the White's etc at Secunderabad. In many things he reminds me of dear Kerr, but wants his talents and education.

Now farewell, love to all
_________________________yours HG

