1F. C Brown Esqr Anj. Tellichy

 13 Jany 57
Dear Sir

I duly received your letter of the 29th Dec 56. Press of business, caused especially by the great change which you try to explain in your letter, has prevented me from answering it sooner.

It does not appear to me necessary to enter upon all your charges. You have been absent so many years from your plantation that you cannot be expected to account without a searching examination for all the changes wrought in the dispositions of the people: and as you have not deemed it, requisite to ask us for our side of the long story we shall not obtrude it on you. I am the less anxious to do so, as you have met questions and hints, however modestly proferred, with an emphatic denial, tho' referring to facts of which in the common order of things you cannot be supposed to be fully cognizant.

Presuming therefore that it is not your with to hear a word more on the diffrent complaints which you characterize as falsehoods, I think it only incumbent on me to place before you extreme improbability of any set of laborers with any teachers whatsoever being discontented when they enjoy according to your accounts - so much greater advantages than those of the ruling class. If 40 or 45 families of Puleyars have received in one year 811 Rs more than the same number of Tiers, then 15 families (at the rate of 4 1/2 Rs per month) or one full third of them have virtually been maintained without any labor at all. Such a startling discovery ought to lead to a strict inquiry - as to whether these men have actually received what has professedly been spent on them. But to this problem I merely refer en passant and gladly leave herewith the pecuniary questions.

You will find it difficult to prove that either I or Timothy did strive for the temporal headship or for any secular power with the people under instruction. This suspicion may have arisen from the difficulty, insuperable I fancy to native overseers, to distinguish between obedience to the temporal master and obedience to God. Accordingly the instances have not been rare when we teachers were accused of fomenting discord and disobedience, because we felt bound to teach and recommend another morality than was to the taste of their superiors. But truly I hoped that you as an Englishman would easily draw a line of distinction between the domain of the conscience and the province of secular rule. I was therefore surprised to find that for some time you had personally interfered with native service forbidding f.i. the freewilling collections made, stopping the Bible reading etc. I could not help drawing the inference that you considered yourself as more than the temporal head of these people. Only on this supposition can I understand how you could be jealous of the sort of influence acquired by the Catechist and myself thro' years of labour. But I solemnly disclaim having ever aspired to be the temporal head of your people, and I can vouch for the Catechist being guided by the same principles.

I may here mention that in 54 your people drew up a petition to be forwarded to you wherein they complained of various curtailments of their income, when I stopped the whole proceeding as not consistent with the honor due to their Master on the spot the late Mr. J. Brown. When I informed him of some complaints, he candidly explained the necessity he was under of ordering these changes, whereupon I exhorted the people to be patient and remain faithful to their masters in bad times, after they had enjoyed with them so many prosperous years. They were convinced and satisfied and the excitement was allayed to my great joy. In similar manner I wished them not to insist on their being freed from the imaginary pollution however much I could have wished the masters to grant freely to them a privilege which Mapillas or even Romanists, in case they had turned they would have claimed and obtained at once by virtue of their conversion. They were in consequence exposed to many taunts: but I was in a measure glad that their progress towards civil liberty was so slow, and never exhorted them to help themselves, but on the contrary to bear patiently the restrictions imposed on them. 
To your charge of having encouraged insubordination by receiving thieves from the plantation I can answer boldly: no thief was ever taken into our employ. After the death of the late Mr J. Brown, when there was something like a divided government at Anj. 4 laborers were dismissed for having gone on a Sunday to Cannanore without asking leave. So Many1 had done this before them that the right of leaving the plantation for a Sunday had appeared quite established and I could feel that the punishment was intended as much for me as for these men. When some months elapsed without their being received back although I once or 2ce humbly interceded for them I certainly preferred charging myself with the duty of employing them to their walking about in the country and serving Mappillas. Three others followed them during the year (not 11 families as has been reported to you). But then I encouraged none to leave your work, but merely received outcasts against whom no charge of real misconduct had ever been preferred; and I expected to see them go back when you arrived from Europe, an event which all your old subjects hailed with unfeigned delight, being accustomed from childhood to look up to you as their natural protector with whom redress would be found for every grievance.

The fact is that many a time and for various reasons Christians wished to leave your plantation and that invariably until the demise of Mr J. Brown, we dissuaded them from the step. We feel and always felt it to be contrary to our vocation to interfere with the secular concerns of those whom we wish to save. We feared the scattering of the flock as exposing them to new temptations. We were thankful for the opening granted to us, tried to improve it and gain souls for a better world, whilst we left temporal matters to those whose province they were. The times have changed and we feel that now we should wrong these people if after you have cast them off we did not try our best to keep them together and find provision for their maintenance: but we do so with fear and trembling, because whilst we imagine them to be valuable acquisitions to planters, they are likely to be a heavy burdon on a poor Missionary Society. But as we think we are now forced to this measure we would take courage and hope we shall not be put to shame and here I think it my duty, to speak a free word with you. It was a long connexion, these 18 years of struggling with the spirit that rules at Anjercandy. Do not suppose me to harbour any bitter thought against you or against others, whilst yet I must utter what will grieve you. I speak of struggles, for it was not from "vain discourses*" that we expected a great transformation. In reviewing the past years, I cannot help seeing, how impracticable your scheme was of raising these slaves without obedience to God's word. Many indeed were the contrivances for their improvement, a moral and intellectual transformation was really wished and partly obtained. The regularity with which labour was organized the justice with which it was rewarded, the wisdom which made these slaves a constituent part of a little commonwealth with welldefined duties and rights, all the influences of superior European minds were certainly contributive to mental culture. Not that I think it is in human nature that this should make them true men, they themselves have always stated that there was more of truth in their former state, before they were incorporated into a more developed society. But they were elevated educated and improved in various ways. Yet one defect seems to me to have vitiated the whole plan. The necessity of keeping marriage holy seems never to have been contempted in its importance 
Though rarely expressed in plain words, this was the grievance of your Christian laborers. Understand me well, I know that a slave had redress agnst a fellowslave in a case of adultery but what redress had he against his superiors. Here was a family of masters blessed by God in many respects, in a position to change large* tracts of heathen ground into an earthly paradise yet increasing for generations without the tie of matrimony. What other could the effect of God's word be but discord! Accordingly by far the greatest diffuculties we encountered in our calling turned on the subject of sexual sins. How next to impossible for the masters, to allow real freedom, a moral judgment and choice to their subjects unless they too submit to God's scheme for our good. It was in this regard that your laborers were more difficult to deal with than any barbarous tribes of jungledwellers. It was this that divided the Puleya community into 2 parties, those that excused and abetted the old sins and those that saw and regretted the miseries thereby engendered. It was this (and not any religious view of the castequestion) that kept the Teeas in a state of excitement against the Christians, and made them to enter into a sort of combination agst Christian influence with the masters to whom they are linked by so many ties. It was this prevailing vice what endangered the spiritual health of our own Catechists and kept us in continual fears. Our difficulties with the late Mr J. Brown and his successors can all be traced to this source. The first Catechist was in fact dismissed on account of his opposition to such sins (although he had not had the strength to keep himself unspotted by them). It was during that crisis (in 1840) when already the Teers rejoiced that there was an end of Christianity at Anj. that I first visited your plantation. I am happy to give your late brothers the testimony that more and more towards the end of their lives they wished well to your plan of Christianization and they desired Christians to be unmolested in their conscientious objections to the old ways. But what were we to expect of the next generation? For years our hopes were centered in your son, who by the grace of God resisted so long the current that had set hard against him. Ah if he could have married, we thought, a new era might yet dawn upon Anjercandy. It was not to be. Meanwhile our Catechists fell one after the other, and had to be changed. Only the 2 last stood firm to the end. When you arrived the people hoped from you a better example. So did I after you had promised me that your nephews should be restrained from Christian women. But great was our disappointment. No wonder if we after all despaired of any final settlement of the question, if esp. the Catechist grew weary of his exposed situation and was sometimes betrayed into a warmth unbecoming one who drew part of his subsistence from you. We cannot look back with any thing like triumph upon the 18 years of our connexion with Anjerc. We feel we have been wanting in many respects, so were the Catechists, much more the people. Yet do we trust that all the labor has not been in vain, that now and then one died, repenting and believing to the salvation of his soul, and that also many of those who left you now are intent upon this one thing, and will to the end of their lives pray for you, and feel themselves indebted to you, because without your opening the door to the Gospel it could hardly have reached them.

Excuse my freedom in thus speaking to you once more without reserve. I am foolish enough to think that by the grace of God you may yet once thank me for doing so.

Accept my thanks for the leave given to the people in answer to a request made by me 4 weeks ago when certainly I devised* not one of the mighty changes you have now brought about. You will not have been surprised to find that after your passionate dismissal of the whole of them, few returned to the homes endeared to them by so many associations.

With every wish for the welfare of yourself and yours
 I remain



1But this might have been foreseen, for sooner or later the command to keep marriage holy must have come in conflict with the free mode of life adopted by the Masters of the Plantation, entwined as it was with the whole system established on it, and hallowed by long usage. For here was a highly gifted family, placed by God into a position to change large tracts of heathen ground into an earthly paradise, and yet practically declaring itself free from the demands of God's law about matrimony. This one defect must have marred the whole plan. For soon it must become evident to the poorest slave that God demanded one thing, the masters another. Was it not next to impossible for the latter, to introduce real freedom, to allow their subjects a moral judgment and choice of their own, - unless indeed they too submit to God's order for our good.

struggle that has now come to its end. As you appear much surprised that the word of God should cause strife and division and heartburnings such as you found on your return from England, I think it right to explain this fact. Not that I wish to assert either I or my fellowworkers were blameless in every respect, but this I am bold to say, that the Gospel however preached must have produced these fruits. Kindly Excuse1 if I must refer to painful facts. Your scheme of ameliorating the condition of the slaves in your plantation did hardly contemplate the possibility of their ever feeling bound to obey other commands than those issued by men.

From the first entrance at Anjercandy all our difficulties are to be traced to this one source. It was in this regard that the Pulayas were more intractable than many barbarous tribes. It was this that divided their community into 2 parties those that excused and abetted fornication and those that saw and regretted the miseries thereby engendered. It was this pretension of a superior morality (and not the mere caste question) that kept the Teeas in a state of excitement agst the Christians that favored combinations by high and low against Christian influence. It was this prevailing vice that endangered the spiritual life of our own Catechists and kept us in continual fears. The first Cat. was in fact dismissed on account of his opposition to the old sins (altho' he had not had the strength to keep himself unspotted by them). It was during that crisis (in 1840) when already the Teeas rejoiced that there was an end to Christianity at Anjercandy, that I visited it for the first time.



2My dear Dr. Gundert.

Lest you might not have heard it yourself, I write to tell you, that from a letter just received from the ...3, he tells me that he and Mrs Thomson intend (D.V.) leaving by Pattymar this Evening* for Cannanore. so that we may expect to see them perhaps tomorrow.
 Yrs. very truly*
 C.C.* Taylor
13th. Jany

