Dr H. Gundert, Deputy Inspector of schools, Koompta1

 Mangalore 17th Oct 57

Dear Papa

I am very much grieved to have delayed so long writing you; but the cause of it is that we thought it was too late for a letter to reach you still. After the receipt of yours of the 12th this morning at 9 I quickly sent off the home letters; but Mr Hoch who very kindly went to the tapal himself found that the post for the north had already left before 7 O'C So greatly disapointed I keep them by fear they cannot reach you any more. All your letters beginning by Ancola have been 5 days in the way. I am truly vexed that you have not the home letters you would have such such a nice time to read them on the Patima. However the Sea is not very quiet now, and I hope you will rather come by land if it is still so stormy!

From Fritz 3 letters waiting for you! many from school masters etc 
Goddard wrote 2 very nice letters to Mr Gompertz. No hope for the present to get neither mother nor child he is much grieved about them; but rejoices in the Lord for his great salvation of which he speaks as a humble and true believer; Gompertz still full of joy about M'Grigore who by Gods grace is going on well, Law is also coming nigh. But the sin of M Carr which has just reached Major's Hotson s ear is a terrible thing. No merci or regard any more for Carr. Hotson very sorry to have made such a speach to the seepois about Carr's morality and good conduct Gompertz had a good opportunity to speak to Hotson as he was angry at Carr and repeated the words of Carr in refusing to go to dinner; "because of temptations" Mrs Genning who has also a great deal to say on the subjet; said that Robert Gorden had told the stories and life of C already 12 month ago to May from whom she had heard it; but did not quite believe it.

Mercia is at Mercara. Haller will it seems quit the Mission all together! Amman came this morning, A conferance is to be held on monday after which Kaundinya will go to Mercara; here all as usual all would be glad if you could see your way to stay here and let me go to Calicut Gompertz feevrish wants some one to help with the English therefore would be thankful if you could stay! We may speak of this after your return. The letters of our children very nice. The Dr <Brett>* decidetly better he lives in Carr's house and has prayer the morning with G and M'Grigore He is more joyful and said to G. I see that it is wrong to complain always, I must go forward and rejoice, Last thursday K. had the meeting Hoch was not well it was nice. M'Grigore was with us and he looks happy Lydia has been ill again with fever

Now Pardon please if you have not had before; this and other letters which I keep by fear it is too late
 Yours J. Gundert

