Dr H. Gundert, Depy. Inspr of Schools, Calicut, Care of Revd J. M. Fritz 
 Mangalore 10th May 57
Dear papa

I see that the last letter I have sent you was too heavy for half an anna I am sorry to have made that mistake, this will now be right. Major Carr has sent us a good quantity of it. - Thursday evening the meeting was here as usual. Mr Hoch had it, I did not hear much of it: being thinking how to make comfortable the Deggelers who were to come next day. they are now well at home here and I am also well and comfortable, they have our bedroom with your bathroom and I sleep where you used to sleep during the rain in the middle room, and I have put Ester and the Tamul woman out of the room next to my my bathroom so that there I have a nice quiet place. He looks miserable and poorly he walks about but is very weak.

Major Carr wanted still to go by sea if a pattimar could go out of the river; but till now they could not. You were very fortunate to be able to leave that day you did; for since that a pattimar is at sea with the flag and no boat can go, two manjees were broken to pieces which would venjure going.

I have made a mistake in sending my last to Cochin. Mr Pfleiderer says that he sent to Calicut. This morning Saturday we have a goodeal of rain and thunders it began at 5 early and it is going on. So Major Carr who was to leave this morning if the sea had been good is I suppose at home. <Sunday he goes this evening by land>

Mr. Kaundinya wrote to Pfl that he would be this sunday at his place Samuga. I have sent the horse yesterday to pootoor. He may be here tuesday. Hoch was here almost the whole day yesterday settling the quarrels between Steaphan (Stangers man) and his wife who was sent away by him because when she returned from here some months ago she went to his place; but he was not there, meanwhile she has been accused of adultry during his absence; but they are as bad the one as the other; he is ill with dropsy. Yesterdy in speaking of the school which is still increasing, Hoch said well when your Marie has come if you will allow her to help a little my wife we shall be very glad, she need not live with us of coarse; but if you can spare her some time we shall be thankful. Miss Will though of very good temperd now says that it is indeed too much; the girls are bad and desobidient. When you see dear Mrs Fritz, give her my sincere love. and to him of coarse. 
Hartman the tailor is now house father to the boys thats to say he looks after them making mats and other business; for Mr Pfl found that he could not watch them having too much to do. 12 of them come still to work after noon. Benjamin was taken away by his parents yesterday; but he desired to go it seems he looks very proud, his parents were pretty long with Deg and showing much greef that he is not to go there again. Two new boys have come still very young, the mother a heathen has been sent away by her husband; she works cooly work at the english school the father who came to see the boys looked very sad and as the boys did not like to go with him he said well I perhaps come too. Almost all the women came yesterday at the meeting. Mrs. Walker mother in low said "Oh now you have gone to the highest heaven because You took the Lord supper from Hebich." her leg is better; but cannot walk as yet nor stand. Elieser is still here the same. The tailor Thomas who was with the Moegli has also died of the Cholera, there was a native report in the bazar that Meogling had got an attack yesterday; but as we hear nothing of them we hope all is right. Hoch is a little fidgited and fancys Kaundinya will come back with the jungle fever and the business will be terrible I wish you a good day many blessings
 yours Julie Gundert

The Dr just now tells me that Deggeler must try to go by sea to Calicut and then to the Hills his sickness is intermittent billious fever the sea would be the best for him.

I hope to get a letter from you to day sunday! or tomorrow!

I just got your letter thanks for it

Mr Hebich is very busy witing letters. Mr Thomas did not come to the Lord supper. He wote a letter to Mr H. (who had told him that if he would not ask pardon of his father he should not come to the Lord supper.) that if Hebich would not receive him in his church he was sorry but hoped that God would show him that he was wrong in his judgement against him! The Hodsons did not come. The little tamil boy called Zachariah answered boldly and very nicely to all the questions made to him at his baptisem. Deggeler is rather poorly the Dr say that his sistem is altogether deranged and that he requires the Hills or Europe. Houser should not go to Udupi before October the Dr said So poor Camerer is to be alone there.

Though this might have been soon enough if sent only tomorrow. I do it to day Tuesday and wait quietly for a letter from you. Yetty, Ester and many others send Salams.

Eliesar will soon go down to be in Leonhard's house where he wishes to be then Albert the boys schoolmaster shall get his house.

Now I go to the poor house. Adieu peace and grace
 Yours afft
 Julie Gundert

