<An Haultain>*

 <ca. 10 August 1857 von Malapuram.>*

1As I have much work to finish before I leave (in 1 day or 2) I must not advert to all that you write however interesting but give utterance to what presses most heavily on my heart. Yesterday I saw your last letter to E. Thomas Esqr; when I heard from you today I expected you would at least allude to such a painful occurrence. But no, not a word! - Now I confess I do not understand the grounds on which you rest your proceedings. You wish to reprove unfruitful works of darkness. But you have not made out one work which you are called to reprove. You have heard a report granted - from a dear brother; but still only a report, you have not asked for the evidence, you have not sifted that, but because one brother says so, you reject the other you cut him off from your heart, and do what is in you to turn him out into the world. Allow me to say that you have acted without any apostolic precedent or principle to rest on. E.T. my have erroneous notions on the subject of his father? Who is to punish him for it. He has perhaps spoken in confidence to a bosom friend in the same erroneous strain? Is that a work of darkness? Let that friend reprove him and heal him of the false opinions he holds. There is here no work which would call for the interference of others. Even if it did, is not everything to stand on 2 or 3 witnesses? My own impression is that dear H.<ebich(?)>* has quite mistaken the mind of the Lord in this matter, and that he acts the part of Moses rather than of a minister of the N.T. Is there no word in Ser.* about covering faults and sins? I think more than about publishing and proclaiming them. I have no calling to obtrude my views on others, but I would tell you that no love for a brother or any number of brethren shall ever induce me to give my adherence to such a partial, violent, noisy and therefore worldly course of action.
1That a grant of 60 Rs per mensem be made, 35 of which are to be applied to the augmentation of the salary of the headmaster, and 25 to increasing the salaries of other teachers, or providing more efficient ones. That 100 Rs be given towards furnitures, and 100 Rs for a provision of books on condition that equal sums be expended for this purpose by the Managers. 
