Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

 Cal. 2 Aug 57
My dear wife

Yesterday evening at 10 1/2 PM arrived at Cal. found the Manjil rather heavy, hence rather behind time: for the Mal Bearers are decidedly weaker and the stays longer. Bosshard awoke, so I got a bed - Fritz was awakened by the dogs barking but I did not inform him as I had heard at Tell that Mrs F. was near her confinement. This morning I saw him, got your letter and received some of his to look at. Therefore in haste some news. The Comm. keep me as their own Miss[ionar]y in case of sickness, death etc. I may also any time reenter in their services. - 5th June about noon the Kinderhaus children went to the Termines - when the new party arrived, no brother or sister did know each other. It was of no use for Hub. to say now seek thy bro. or sister, he had to introduce them to each other. They look not rosy, but well, Rosalie M best, David next best. Joh M. still pale, so Hannah, who soon recognized the Hubers. Bühr's left 11th for Schaffh. he lookg pretty well. Miss Culm. arrived only the day after the children, havg been in a bath. Children quite at home and happy. Also Miss[ionar]y Hoch arrived for the anniversary. The 25 July 5 br. were to leave for Ind. Im Sept 2 Candidates <Finckh Hauff>* overland, both for Mang. Maenner to Mulky Würteli to Udapi, Huber to Hubly. Capt Pare hoped to reach Mang in 80 days then we might expect the first before the end of Oct. Hub goes always to new and new feasts: "I shall cry into those dead bones that they will be astonished" - Mrs Huber finds that repentance would every where be very useful, she writes in a very nice spirit. Albr's nowhere content, Dharw is still the paradise. Mrs Fr's sister writes a little about the reception of the children at Strasbg but all about Hanna and feelings. You saw that Insp remarked how David walked thro' the house as if it had been his for some time. Now farewell for Sunday morning - they have here today the Lord's supper, so I shall doubly remember you and the congregation there 
 Love to all
 Yours HG

