Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry

 Calicut 20th Nov <1857>*
Dear papa

You ask me to write again to Telliche If you are still there when can we expect you back? It is truly hard from Kaundinya if he knew that you wanted the horse!

Since you are still there I send you the letters which are here. I was afraid the home ones would not reach you therefore I had kept here some which you shall now get with two of Carr The Monny I have got! Thomas is not here but at Malapuram. Robinson came back two days ago. She came in to tell me news of Mrs Holloway after whom I had inquire through her. She suffers still very much in the head has slight fever; but right in her mind. She was probably fainting when she fell out of the window 12 feet high. they fear a miscarriage as she is in that way The Dr ordered perfect quietness no visitors but Mrs. R. A letter from Mrs. Leslie ordering table clothes etc I have sent it to Mangalore, I go this evening to pay a visit to Mrs. Schmid I shall try the ponny for the first time yesterday it carried Aldinger much faster than he wanted. Now dear papa with best wishes  yours aff Julie Gundert

Am I to put a [1]/2 as on the letter of Lechler and send it? 
I have paid my visit to the Schmid and invited the ladies to spend a day; but the old mama saith that they have their work at home, but that they will come to spend one evening and drink tea. I think the eldest would do well for R. She is accostumed to work and economy. She is learned enough for the Gentleman I suppose, she does not look as sharp as the mama, still R. would have a Dr s daughter!

Now Adieu love to Mrs Irion. If you write to Mang remind Pf of a lamp for you as he may part with them before you get one and forget that you have asked for one before.

