 Mangalore 8th Oct 57

Dear papa

Since there is an other letter from Carr I will enclose a few lines, I have not heard from you since you were at Ancola; I am anxious to hear how it went with the woman! and how's dear Goddard in his health!

Yesterday the Dr told me to visit Mrs Mayn who would have no objection to see me she is very ill. so I went I was rather sorry to find with her Mrs Thomas for I could not speak so freely as I would have other wise, however I did when I left I offerd her to come again if convinient: she said yes; but this morning there came a note from him asking me not to go as she had been worse after I had left! She spoke as a believer or rather as one who know there is no salvation but of Christ; but when I mentioned her possibillity of dying and showed my desire that she might then like Mrs Fritz go joyfully trusting in the blood which clense* from all sin she became so pale - and so changed in her countenance that one could see fear and trambling. May God have mercy on them. The Dr thinks her already too far gone to recover except they leave very quickly by sea. As Anna had not yet made her appearance I went to see her she at once said that she was <had been> ready to come to see me and asked when we go that she would by all means come with us to Calicut. I did not give her the note of C. only told her that he had charged us to tell her that if she would not come in the mission she could not expect any help from him. This I did after I had heard already that she was coming. She said she was willing to do any thing we should tell her! In my way I paid a short visit to Mr Gompertz who is still rejoicing to see the work of the Lord in M'Grigor who comes to him morning and evening; but he does not bring him to the meetings which is no loss to him for the present; for there is not much to edify one. I told him to write to Carr about Anna s decision as he was just going to write him. The Dr <Brett?>* still the same yesterday the same lamentations were repeated to me. I then spoke strongly to him to confess his sin and not make God a liar, he was then quikly called away for Mrs. Robinson who was in pain and who during the night was safely delivered of a big girl twice the sise of the little Hoch who as well as her Mama are doing well

Haller is still cast down and has asked H leave to speak once more with M. before she goes to Mercara but H refused; it is just now a pitty that Beusinger is here with whom Haller is very friendly and sees often. Mrs Handybo very sorry to have no news of her husband! May God make her a new creature! One of Mr Fritz girl shall it seems go home with the Deggellers at least Hoch heard so. No news from Amman The mad woman after two days in the prison got some what softened, she is now in the dispensery under treatement. Of the news of the North you know more than me, I was glad to hear of Dhalis fall indeed as it appears

I have not heard as yet from Ancola it is our dear Davids birthday 9th 
Now adieu the Lord be with you
 Yours J. Gundert

We are anxious to hear about dear Goddard

