Dr H. Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 28th Dec <57>*
Dear Papa

It will be good perhaps if you bring all the things which are in the Almira, people might then use it. I want that big doll as David called it to make caps kindly pack it that it does not break.

After inquiries for the bull the boat people will not take it under 10 Rs Will Mrs K. consent to give so much?

Richter came this morning he is better! he is to leave on Wednesday if all is well. Mr Hoch s horsekeeper has just come for money with an order from H. I have given him four 4 Rs perhaps you take this on Mr Pfleiderer on Hoch s account

I know of no news what ever, Mrs Robinson is going on the Hills. Major Minchin had a mind to come and lodge in the Mission waiting for the ship in which he goes home which may delay some weeks Mr Glasson has done his best to press on him that it would be impossible for us to receive him with his family, the Robinson where they were to go cannot receive them either. Glasson has offered them his house where they may manage for themselves. it is truly good of Gl for I do not know how we could have manage for those people. Boshard prayed this morning it was truly refreshing and quickening. 
I have just seen a fine soul a solger1 <Floyd?>* from Malapuram he has been the mean to bring to the Lord the little girls of Mrs Hardy the old Telli. jailors niece or adopted daughter. papa Mama drinking swearing and the two little girls praying for them often abused, for speaking of Jesus. This good man knows you what a fine man!
 Adieu Yours J. Gundert

My love to Nanci and Mrs Walker tell Bira* to take the big gardening scisor from the godown I want them to take out the hot iron from the fire I have nothing and cannot get any made.

