Dr H. Gundert, Mangalore

 30th Dec 57

Dear Papa

It is the 4th day I have no news from you what is this? Have you perhaps gone to Moolki or what Yesterday a sock or short stocking has been sent by bangey it is from Mr Thomas who wishes to have one dozen like it, As they make at Mang give it kindly to Mrs Deg. they have perhaps already some made if so bring them please if not the women will be glad to get work. And Mr Fritz may bring them. In the letter from Madras were 1 R 3 1/2 as of stamps. I trust you will find Mrs Wests Bill in the written papers! You will have heard that Mr. Richter is ill with fever, he is now entirely in Mrs Schmids house the Mama nurses him. Yesterday the Dresser was called who said that Mr R is very poorly indeed; but he hopes that after 3 or 4 days he will be better.

There is no more fine cool wind at night our party will not come so soon. It is also rather warm to day Mr Herry is here he looks nice. Boshart went away yesterday evening, Lauffer is not well a cold or what yesterday did not eat any thing was the whole day on the cauch. Herry said he had heard some where that our Samuel hat been admited in the Bale Institution. 
Do not let me so long without news dear papa! if you cannot write send me word by any one four days it is indeed too long I have written almost every day to you; Till now no one would take charge of the Bull not even for 2 or 3 Rs If you have an opportunity to write to Seb. Muller tell him about a stick of sandle wood for Fritz I should like to give it for his mother sake who wishes it so much.

At last I receive now after noon yours of the 25 and 26 together. Many thanks for them. Mr Moeglings telegraph is also of the 23d so I think that the Dr must have been mistaken however you will soon please God hear all about it. I believe the big morter is in the bottom of the big box however if you have the small one at hand it will do. Aldinger has settled his mind for a lady from Stutgard 30 I think a Bainiger* or what? Just now the brethren have paid a visit to Richter who looks much better. 
The sock I had sent has been brought back they will not take it under 6 as so I keep it and will explain Missi what I mean. Lauffer is going to Telli and Cannanore for a few days. When you come there you may get 16 Rs from Mr Stroble for a piece of long clothe. I sent him or will send by Herry 
Love to all the people black and white how is Miss Will chearful glad of Mrs Deggeller I send her special love

 Yours affectly
 J. Gundert

