 25 Febr 571

2My dear sweet boys.

Some days ago we were much rejoiced to receive many letters from you, and to have the testimony of your aunt Culman, that you are good boys. That is right dear Paul to shake off the name of Schmiermichele as much as you can, and learn well, that you get in your brother's class, I fear David will get the same name as you had, and I hope you will help him as much as possible to get rid of it in teaching him cleanness and good behaviour. That was very nice of your uncle Theodore to give you a drum; but I hope you do not annoy other peopole with its noise. How many nights did you keep it in your bed, the last letter you sent was so well written, that it reminded me of Samuel's writing some years ago. - Do you also like to pray? and hear the word of God. And you dear Freddy you wrote 3 letters in one day, that is rather too much, it is not good for you to do too much in one day, you are like your mama you have weak nerves, and if you work beyond their strength, all becomes spoiled, from being irritated. To do only a little, and have it well done is much better. You off course remember Jacob who was at Cherikel, God has called him away from this world, he met his Saviour with peace and joy. - I am glad to hear that you are writing letters to your brothers in Stuttgart, What a joy you will have when you see them all, and specially if they were to stay in Basle by and bye. - Is it now very cold with you, that you are obliged to blow your fingers to warm them, it would be nice if we could exchange a little our heat with you, for we already feel it pretty much. David perhaps brings you some of it. I am glad to hear that both of you wish to be very kind to him, when he comes. Make him to relate to you all about Mangalore, our house our rooms, garden, about Major Carr your old friend who gave him plenty gingercakes, of the catechist boys and every body here.

Now with a hearty kiss
 I remain your Mama
 Julie Gundert1

