 Mangalore <ca 9>* Septb. 57

My sweet dear Paul

This time I write to you and thank you for your last though you wrote almost nothing; but the names of your school fellows: your next I trust will be better; perhaps you were afraid to repeat again what your brothers had written already! You did not say whether you like David. I am glad to hear that he likes german so much: and can already speak a little. he will soon like to learn too I hope. You have had plenty time to play during the visit of your brothers. Herrman is still writing to us of what has passed while he was at Bale! It will be a very great joy to us to get your portrait the six together; as for David's one here such as we have sent one to you, I do not look at, as yet I cannot; it is in my almira.

Is Samuel Buhrer with you or did he go with his mama and sisters David or one of you in your next letter must give us news of Hermanly Amman is he still the favorite of David? does he learn so quick as Jacobly? I send him my love as well as to all the others Tell David that Major Carr, Mr Bates and Handybos have gone to war: and our dear Dr Brett must perhaps go too! Tell dear Frederic that I am very glad to hear he is obedient to his aunts and loves dear Miss Culman so much, as never go to school without a kiss from her. I hope my David will also become obedient and affectionate, for he likes to be loved; Mr Haller takes tea with us always two or three times a week and we speak plenty of David; Lydia loves him also and gets flowers from him. We have two beautiful calves <one of the Arabichi>1 and plenty milk and cheese. Now I send a tender kiss to each of you, with plenty love  Your Mama Julie Gundert

