 Mangalore 30th June 1857

My sweet dear boys <Fr and Paul>*

While I am writing this, you are I hope alltogether at Bale, you six brothers and sister and how many good friends! Last sunday we heard by the Home news that the Seringapatam had reached England Mr and Mrs Buhrer with 8 children; this number surprised every one of us, for there should be 9 children. Who is dead or what did happen was the thought of every one of us. Dr Brett said my Johny is dead I said perhaps my David who was so quick and lively has jumped over board or what? however we must wait for a fortnight before we can hear anything about that dear party; and we hope that it may be a mistake of the writer and that the 9 children have been spared; but it is indeed a long time to be with out news of those so dear. Oh my sweet David, we daily speak of you: papa who has been at home for a few days has been mending our road and you know what big stones he puts in the middle of the road so that the bandy shakes dreadfully. When ever we go on those stones we say if our precious David was here how he would laugh and help papa to put more. Now papa is going away again for some time. Did you not wish to come with Marie to Balmatha and see us? but that big sea to cross that's a terrible obstacle. Were you very vere glad to see land again? Well you three, you must learn well and chiefly pray much to the dear Lord then when you are big boys, have studied well and love the Lord Jesus, you come again to see this beautiful country - and perhaps papa and Mama will still be alive to see you, that would be a great joy, no? I never thought I would see Marie again, and now please God I may still see her and hear all about you. What a joy it will be. Lydia has been very ill. she is now well again, Miss Will sends love. Paul Mark Theophil Hoch are well, come often here, specially since Mr Haller is here, Ebenezer is with Mr. Pfleiderer. 47 boys are at school here! Tell me some thing of all your friends and whom you love most

My precious boys I must say Adieu I hope my sweet Frederic is no more passionate and angry

 With plenty kisses
 your Mama Julie Gundert

