5 Calicut 14 May 57

My dear wife

This morning I arrived here just together with the bugler's reveil - I wrote from Cunnenculam Nro 4. On the evening of the 11th I set out, the bearers ordered by me for about 5 PM, but by Beuttler for 9 PM (as he wished to keep me longer) came shortly before 11 o'clock when the sky was full of clouds - but as I had kept them so long awake I set out and prepared for a ducking. This I got to my heart's content, the bearers swearing stoutly that they were dying, indeed already dead. All around us water - at last they put me up in a watershed ________________ and would not move farther. But just then the thunders passed away and after all they took me to Tirtalla, where I - tired from much walking - slept an hour or 2 before going on to Dixon's place Kuttipuram, near the railway. Such miserable bearers as these Christians (Syrians) I have never seen in my life; they changed shoulders about 20-25 times in each mile!

With Dixon very happy hours he is very warm in the spirit and knows that Mrs Beutler does not love him much. I intended to sleep at Codacal but rain kept me with Dixon till the morning of the 13th when I rode over to Codacal and found Bosshardt in his heremitage. Preached there and dined. Then in bullock bandy to Tanoor, for bearers were not to be had. In T. got some milk and then passed on with bearers to this.

Bossh had also had a night like Hunz and Keuler at Mulky only he sat up in Codacal Bangalow and wondered why the natives snored on. Now farewell. I am thank God all well in body - and though with much work before me as cheerful as is wanted for the occasion.

Zach's mother considerably better - she came of course at once to see me.  Yours HG.

