 Cal 20 Dec <57>*

My dear Marie

Though we have not yet heard of your arrival at Bomby as I write still I will, in good hope that you are very near our land, give this note to papa who begins his journey to meet you D.V. at Mangalore Oh dear child is it indeed true that I shall be permitted to see you! and have you! May the Lord bring you and prepare us for each other so that we may give joy to each to each other; but in the Lord who does such wonders of love for us! Now dear child though I wish you to enjoy Mangalore much and not be troubled in any way still I would feel much pleased if you would sit for some hours by my dear Miss Will to learn a pattern of knitted work for tidy, she knows what I mean if you already do not know what I mean she will kindly teach it you. I wish dear Marie that you be very kind to Miss Will she will tell you plenty things about your infancy, for she played with you. If you have anything you do not require as un petit souvenir give it her I shall be pleased, or after you have come here as your things will not be opened all before you reach this place we may send it from here!

I hope you will have much joy in your way down; first by Pattimar you will amuse your papa in relating stories and than at Cannanore Tellicherry and Chombala. I shall every day go to the sea shore to look at the Pattimas comming.

I regret that you shall not see dear Mrs. Hoch. but a few monthes afterward please God you may see her with her little Mary and the boys! 
Do not forget to bring the portrait of Mr Fritzs children ask for it if one does not give it you! But perhaps Mr Fritz will be there before you leave Papa shall tell you what is right to do.

Well I will not write more for the present in the hope to embrace you soon D.V. In your last just received you say that you are worldly and love the world; I wait to see all about it Only come. When Jesus becomes precious to you the world will run away from you

 your affectionate Mama
 Julie Gundert

