 Cal 19 May 57

My dear wife

Tomorrow it is my intention to leave this and proceed to Tellich. We have now the regular Monsoon. I will therefore not travel by night, but by day only. Letters from you none since the homeletters. I can therefore be short. Yesterday Baynes returned my visit. Somewhat well inclined towards me, I thought, but still determined not to seek Christ. He had at first spoken of giving Sunday for religion, but as Lutyens had announced a change of the Sunday service to the middle of the day, he declared that now he could no more go to Church. I wonder if he will ever come down perhaps he buys out within a few years and then enters the Church! - Afterwards to Robinson, who had had a fainting fit. I think it was a warning to him not to be too much engrossed with his secular business. I thank God that I could come somewhat nearer to his heart than hereto fore, and hope we may have a nice evening there for today we must dine there - a long way out in the rain and then in the morning I shall have to go it over again. - In the Schmidts' I saw many things I liked. Yesterday evening they came here for tea. Not indeed the old Dr but Mama, 2 daughters and the son who is here teacher in the English school. The elder girl appears to be converted. I thought even she might do for C<amerer>*. - From Cannanore I have no letters. It is possible that I do not stay there at all, merely pass a night or two.

The Hodges' have a hard business about 2ce or 3 times the work that West does. I pity him truly for it begins to be too much for him. - We are here anxious how it will go with the Anjerc. people. The Comm. wants them to be divided over the outstations of whole Malabar. Heb will not like it - 
Farewell The Lord with you and
 Your HG

