Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Codacal 10 Dec. <57>*
My dear wife

From Tuesday <8> morning to Wednesday <9 Dec> afternoon I was at Malapooram, read in the night with a candle stuck up on a inverted flowervase of Thomas' and the candle melting the vase burst - wasn't it very stupid?! Yesterday afternoon I came as far as a place called ________ where the Collector has built a sort of stable for roving beings like myself. People mistook me for a ____________ or I might have been left without milk Coolies etc. Of course when at last asked point blank are you the Tuccudi; I said: no but come from his house. The horsekeeper put on the belt with great effect. It is an admirable contrivance. The cold awakened me early - the fact is that is rather a high spot, and the hills (Sisipara ghaut) send down T...r sharp winds. So I got up with the moon and descended from the hill, where in the evening I had seen the lowlands lying before me as on a map, and fancied for a while, how I should take a telescop and Mary with me and explain every point. The march in the sort of half or 2/5 moonlight we had was rather dreary, I arrived here with the Sun, Bossh. just putting on his braces. He has only finished half the cheese you gave him (without my permission) and has cut it straight through, yet have I been kind enough to give him another. Tomorrow morning I will go on to Ponany and hope to find there a letter which happiness is something future still on this excursion. Beuttler is gone to the Miss[ionar]y Conference in the South, so I could not visit him if I would. Probably I may see him when I go to Palghat D.V. 
I visited Bean once or 2ce at Malap. he had heard much against Hebich ("from people who had for years been in the habit of hearing him") and their impression that Heb was wanting in charity seems to be his - still he esteems him and thinks perhaps more on the great question of earnest saving faith than I could as yet perceive. Love to all. I know you pray for me and I have you often on my mind in my slow progress
 Your HG.
1
______________

