Dr. H. Gundert, Cannanore, Mission house

 Balmatta 20th Aug 57
Dear Papa

I am indeed very sorry that you have been so treated with letters, specially for those of our children and Mrs Young s for it is now too late to answer as they were to leave the 25th I have quickly written to her an other letter and explained how is the delay. I have not addressed any letter to Ponanny because in yours of the 8th you said that letters written on the 16th 17th should be addressed to Calicut so we anderstood that you would be a very short time at Ponany. However now you have the letter I wrote on Sunday and at Tellichery an other one. We are all glad to hear that you are coming back soon perhaps you may still see the Major before he leaves. As Mr Pfleiderer was sending letters through Madras yesterday I wrote a short one to Stutgard and Bale

I hope this time of anxity will be blessed for some of our people for they are some what afraid; as they hear that with their padris they will be cut off. I wish they be all well distressed and seek the Lord in truth. when ever the women come to me I speak on this subject and hope the Lord will stir up some to prayer and examination! One of them told me today that the people of out side are angry at Kaundinya saying he is the cause that the rice is so dear he wants the people to starve in order to join the mission. So according to their account he is to be killed the first than the other padris and then the children. We are thank God in good hands and know that not a hair of our heads shall fall without our father's will. Now is the time to remember our Lord's word fear not those who can kill the body and after that can do nothing more. To morrow we have a day of prayer and shall have preaching like on Sunday our evening meeting shall be for special prayer. Oh may God greant that it may be a true and real blessing for the congregations and their Ministers and helpers Our people are rather surprised to have a day of humiliation to morrow and ask why that. 
Sister Hoch is pretty well very weak but better! he is often here and now of sort again his fit has passed He will be glad to see you arrive. Carr is rather nice. The Dr <Brett?>* is also getting reconciled to his fate regarding staying in the country. Yesterday tuesday at the meeting there were rather few people. Kaundinya has not been well for some time he has a cold and feels fevrish else here all is as usual. I am sorry to hear Sister Fritz is so weak. Give my loves to all at Can. and thanks to the Diezes for their kind letter which I shall answer D.V. soon. Apropos ask Sister D. after the money or edgings Mrs Steven had To day is again a rainy day and the sea boisterous Bramins and C Romans are more at ease since troopes have come to Goa for Dahrwa and Belgam

love to all. The Lord be with you
 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

The Dr has just been here I made him my french text which is a beautiful one to day. The shop keeper Thompson's big boy has died they are much distressed about

