Dr. H. Gundert, Calicut

 Balmatta 14th Aug <57>*

Dear papa

I have to thank you for two letters of the 9th 10th I am glad to hear you had work with some souls; may God give faith to those who hear the word. I had a nice time with the drummers wives in reading Act 14th. Mrs Walker leg is not so well as it was: she has a blister on. Poor Nanci is much troubled about her boy who has been stealing from her and found out by Gough who reported it to the officers so he is now in prison. Major and Gom will spare him as much as they can, however he must be punishe Nancis feels well that she is too weak with him and that he requires a strong hand. She will try to get service again with some Ladies Major Carr looks out for her. After the meeting I went to see the school where I had not gone for a long time, they had feast so I came back and found your letter with one of Mrs Moegling and Mrs Deggeller You shall perhaps get them with written papers after our children's letters have come which may be very soon. Mrs Hoch is much better today she got up and walks in the room. Gompertz was not at the meeting he is fevrish Carr may have to go way with a new regiment which is perhaps to be formed out of other regiments.

Bramins and Roman Catholiks are in fear for life and property Happy those who can say the Lord is my shepherd I shall fear no evil, nor those who can but kill the body. We are all well and as usual. Camerer will soon come to pay a visit I hear.

The rice is also very dear here 3 1/2 Rs the moodi. people from the south have come to buy a good deal and wait for the sea being opened quickly to take it down.

Now the Lord be with you and give you a good time making you a blessing to many

 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert.

Love to all at Calicut specially Sister Fritz

