Dr H. Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 27 Dc 57
Dear Papa

Yesterday Mr Thomas paid us a visit. He would have brought his brother if you had been at home; for he wishes you to see him and hopes that on your way to Paulghat you will see him. Mr Frere is here with the Robinson. the Hayes are expected too there! The bridegroom is still the whole day with his people, he comes to sleep and runs off early. We did not take the Lord supper on Friday but to day Boshard came in Saturday morning he is very nice. It is a great difference with Lauffer. We have been teasing a good deal the last one on account of his "never mind" which he uses for every thing. Dear Mr Thomas is so affectionate one cannot, but wish for him that he may soon possesse fully Christ, just now we hear that Richter is sick and Fritz is to go see him. Yesterday I had a little talk with her she is more than I thought. When I asked how long she had felt the work of the Lord in her, she said that from her youth she felt she was a sinner and had always a desire to be a child of God. but she never felt such strong conviction of sin nor such change as she has heard and read of many, so, often she thought in seing that she had not felt such change that she could not be converted and still her whole desire is to love and serve Jesus who has loved her! Mr Smyth has just written to Fritz having heard that there is preaching in english he askes leave to come. Mr Hall. must have spoken of the Lord supper and Fritz does not wish the Smyth to come. A propos bring rather for 2 Rs of soap we want some for the house 1 R worth of each. Bring also a few english heart books there are none here

Fritz came back from Richter who had fevre, it seems he took cold; but he is already better!

Well to day you have I trust a good day from the Lord with the brethren. How is the Dear Doc? Gompertz, Mac gregore? What news from Goddard and Carr? What from Ford? Plenty love to Misi to Mrs Deg and to all the dear people black and white. Comfort dear Kaundi about the people for I think they are not better here than there therefore he must take good courage and labour waiting for the rain of the Sattu*1 season. We do want patience till the father make the seed to spring up and bear fruit. To day I felt happy in speaking with the girls; though often it looks as if there were almost no ears to hear. If we feel grieved at this how much more must the Lord feel who has real love and a mind to safe all.

Perhaps Marie may be with you on the new year though it is very doubtful. I do not expect you before the 14 or so, As you will I hope take her to Ca. Tel etc

I just receive yours of the 24 for which many thanks. If the Lady will have the Bull she better keep it till after the rain it may feed there better than here - we will not require it for ...2 I shall seek for a pattimar; but how can it go without anyone to care for it. This evening as we were going to take the Lord supper Mrs Schmid sent word that R was ill again so we were alone with Mr Hall and Mr Glasson who is just now in for one or two days. Convert went to see R who is not so very bad; but he must be this night there the Mama cares for him. With love
 yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

