Dr H Gundert, Calicut

 Balmata 10th Aug <1857>*
Dear Papa

I have to thank you again for your kind letter of the 6th from Malapuram I did not expect to hear so soon therefore am the more thankful. On Saturday Mrs Thomas sent a book in his name for your perusal. "Records of the Madras Government." As Mr K saw it he asked to read it so I wrote to Mrs Tho saying that if they would require the book before your arrival which cannot be before a fortnight she would kindly let me know if not the brethren here would be thankful to see it. I intend D.V. to pay her a visit tomorrow. 
Saturday evening the Major and Dr drunk tea here: When Carr heard what you say about Mr Robinson feelings on the future he said "Well all the good people seem to be concern and think much about what may come I wish I could be afraid and mouved, but I am so hard." I than spoke of the next feast the Musulmen are to have in which if God would allow they might do a great deal of mischief; but he does not think that they agree together among themselves: Well we have to wait upon God and stay quiet in Him. All death of his saints in precious in his sight!

Do you know whether the Missionary Hunter who was killed with his wife was the same we saw on board ship? Mrs. Hoch is again not so well as she was after the blister so it is still doubtful if they shall not be obliged to go away. She is taking pills which have quicksilver so she suffers a good deal from tooth ach! her stools are still bad. If you were here Hoch would feel more quiet to leave the station and take her, how long do you think will you be absent? Some people here have gone on the moock; perhaps to seek security!

Well dear papa I wonder where you are, Mr Pfleiderer sais that he will still address his letter to Calicut, so will I do and hope the next may be to Cannanore!

All here is as usual The Dr rather desapointed knowing that he will no be able to get his leave since those at home who had leave are to return to their posts.

Now I will say adieu with love to all.
Wishing you peace and joy in the Lord
 Yours affectly
 J. Gundert

