Dr. H. Gundert, Cannanore1, care of Rev. M. Fritz
___nore" ersetzt.

 Balmatta 16th <Aug 57>*
Dear Papa

Two days no letter from you; but I hope to day to get some lines! It is true that I have been also two days without writing; Mrs. Hoch is not worse. Yesterday the 2 Drs came again and gave her an other medecine which did her good I think. He <Hoch> is out of sorts and always fancy that she makes her self worse by moving about and getting up. Our Dr also still out of joint He has just now many patients, cannot get his leave so he is not well. The Mayns are sick too. Carr will probably be off after a few days. A friend of him who is sent along, wrote to him "Well I hope we still come in time for the taking of Dehlee" Carr seems quite pleased to have to go. 
Many poor people 200* and some came to the Collector to get assistance; for many are starving here about; He Robinson sent round a circular for help at the top of which he put his name for 10 Rs I felt quite vexed that such people with such a salary and in such a season as this can be so hard toward the poor. The Mayns who want every day 40 seirs of tavudu to feed Horses and boollocks might well give plenty Is it not fearful that in the midst of their fears of loosing life and property they remain so hard and cleave so much to the goods of this world

The Lord is very good to me I have fine seasons. promises and passages which had not touched me formerly are now very precious. What great gift is faith in the holy word in time of need. With love to all and wishes that God make you a blessing I remain
 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

