Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

5 Dharwar 10 Oct <57>*

My dear wife

I wrote last from Yellapoor. There I had much difficulty in getting Coolies, and in stead of 3 PM I started only a short time before 7 PM. All dark. My little lantern guided us 2 stations through the jungles, I often walking because the men, not accustomed to carrying, were groaning and stumbling. Crossed the river the first time wading and born over the deepest spot, the 2d time in the morning by swimming. Then Hallihal - fine open country, large place, houses reminding of Madras and Bombay natives, 3 Mahratta schools - a Saraswata Brahmin for Peshcar. In the fort the Publ. Bangalow, occupied by Maj. Leggett, and one company of Sepoys to punish some evildoers of the neighbouring. L. was at first some what distant, but grew intimate, having lately lost his wife, so amiable liked and admired by all etc and being nearly overwhelmed by grief. I hired a native bandy for going to Dh. But rain and the stupidity of the driver, who came only 8 PM and then without straw and cover for the bandy, delayed me till beyond 10. I had then prayers with the good man, and could tell him all, and hope he will seek comfort in Christ, and find Him by becoming a sinner. 
Dreadfully shaken in bandy over stony and greasy road - found myself this morning with sunrise still 3 hours from Dh. and therefore walked the remainder, leaving the bandy to the servants who were more dead than alive from their nightmarch. Very fine air. The 3 hours were not so great an exertion as one in the low country. Reached this 9 AM saw Kaufm. and Handrich, and proposed starting tomorrow early for Hoobly because here they will have the Chaplain. Indeed I hear that a chaplain is to be stationed here.

I quite agree with this if Haller is to marry Mercia, he better leaves Mang. perhaps they would like him at Cann or Tell

Just now Müller sends your letter to Hoobly hither. The shoes for Mr Stang I shall leave at Hoobly. Here we have just some rain. You have perhaps more along the coast.

I think that a letter addressed to me at Comptah (after receipt of this) will still reach me. Do not send the overland letters except you have read them. A Canarese address may be required. If I can I will write overland letters at Hoobly, for I must do it today or tomorrow, and my pen is hard for beginning so momentous a business.

I am rather glad I did not take you along the first time. Now I know a little how the journey is to be made. The country I came thro' is nearly altogether Mahratta. Here it is dreadfully quiet. Saw only one Christian, Jacob. Our cook has been dismissed once from Malasam for immorality. I have prayed much for dear Godd. who will have some hard seasons. But grace no doubt carries him thro'. My special love to Gompertz. May He be with his mouth, and enable him to witness.

In haste farewell and love to all
 Yours HG
