Dr H. Gundert, Depy Inspr of Schools, Calicut1

 Mangalore 15 May 57
Dear papa

I do not know how many days will pass before I can send you some lines, Though I have not much to do I find no time to sit quiet; Joseph who had left yesterday at noon the 14 thursday with Wilham and the coolies returned at evening with his own cooly saying he could not go farther, felt too weak to go. we were all angry with him; I hope after some time he will be able to go;

Well I hope also to get a quiet week next one. It was good you were not here these times. I just receive yours from Cunenculam. Have you received nothing at Cochin Mr Pfeiderer as well as my self have sent there twice. Pfleider was much amused at your being taken for a roman bishop etc. Yesterday the meeting was here as usual; but I felt very sleepy it was also a little longer than usual. Amman in displeased <wrote much at the> Deggelers2, for going to the Hills by the way to Calicut, it is true, it will be much longer and more expensif. Last night we had a good deal of rain and thunders The Deg will at last leave tomorrow saturday evening. they could not go sooner, the bearers could not be posted unless two days previous notice. The enclosed of Mrs Buhler has just come with the Mercur. In side of Mrs Buhrers to you were two other letters one for Mrs Moegling and one for the Moerkis.

Last thursday I found no girls at school except two since one has asked after their names, parents names and families to report it to Madras according to order, the parents do not like any more to send their girls. Hoch say that it will soon come right again! The dear Dr <Brett>* is not yet quite right I think he sighs still deeply, he told me that he had told all his troubles to Mr Hebich; but that no one was able to help him. At tea he had a good jock at Gompertz telling him well Carr has gone for 6 month as soon as he returns you go too for 6 month on the hills and you come with some one! None of us has heard from the Major since he left. Hunzinger looks very poorly he suffers night and day from toothach! Deggeler looks and is much better I think he would not require the Hills! It looks quite as if was the monsoon! Dr Jauvet is unwell therefore our Dr is to act for him which does not please him at all! Marie wrote a letter to Mrs Hoch in the highest terms, very nice altogether.

Moegling is better and she too Nahum still weak and pain in his stomach with diarrhee, it is good that it is the last expedition of traveling in that way

Mrs Buhrer's letter may be sent with written papers to day or to morrow I will ask Pfl about it in my part in english there are no news! 
Mr Amman has just announced himself for monday expecting to find ready here all what he wants for his journey to Mercara! if not with us Balmata people with Mr Gompertz!

Now with love
 Yours J. Gundert
Saturday

