 <ca 18/19 April 57>*

My sweet and precious David

I wonder where you are and what you are doing; my thoughts run after you very often. You have wished to be born with a tape binding us together so that we could never be separated do you remember still? Well I am never separated from you in mind nor is papa, very often we say together where is our dear David; and we comfort our selves by looking to the dear Lord Jesus and by praying to Him for you. Do you also pray? Did you now and then on board ship? When Tante Uranie and your Sister Marie come to Bale to see you tell Tante Uranie that she must send me your Photography by Marie. 
The Cholera is now very bad in many places Do you remember Captain Rolston at Cannanore. He had two fine little girls who came to see us at Cherical with their papa, He has also been taken away by the Cholera at Hoonsoor where he was traveling, his poor widow and four orphens heard of his sudden death by the Telegraphe they are at Cananore. The other day I paid a visit to the mother of Emmi and Jane. you of coarse remember them they have become very thin, their mama is ill and will it seems die. The little Philip was also again here with his mama who is always ill.

Mr Haller has not yet come; but He has sent some grapes from Darwar, you would have been glad to eat them I think; but now you are going to get much better than these; We are going to get plenty little boys here, the orphan school from Moolky. I am going to be left very much alone here papa will have to go away for some weeks Mr Kaundinya will also go with the Catechists boys to Mercara for a visit. Ebenezer is just now gone to Cherical during the vacation. So I have but Lydia. She feels the heat very much she becomes thin. Miss Will has been here for some days because she was not quite well. Whom did you like best of all your little friends on board ship? was it not Emily? Have you been reading and writing with Hermanly? Did some of the Gentlemen or Ladies on board speak to you of the dear Lord Jesus?

Yesterday evening I walked with papa to the light house and remembered what a joy my sweet David had there in pulling down the flag and in looking how the man goes up to light the lamp. The little Hoch's children were also there; but not my David which brought me home rather sad.

Major Carr comes still very often and asks after news, Dotor Brett comes also often now and then with a heavy heart after his Johny; so we comfort each other; He will soon go home to see him. Well we cannot hope to see you so soon; but we pray the dear Lord Jesus to turn your heart to Him so that He be more precious to you than papa and mama. He can do much better than we and He has also given you other papas and mamas in Bale for which we thank God and are quiet about you. I just hear that the poor mother of Emmi and Jane has died last night perhaps those poor girls come to us again. 
It is very hot and I am glad that you are not here; for you would have plenty prickly heat and boils like Paul, Mark and Theophil Hoch have: they have spent the day here! poor Paul was very hot with fever, they all have boils

Mr Pfleiderer has a fine dog besides yours, the one of Mr Kaundinya and Bella are well. In your next letter you must tell me plenty things Your Mimi Diez thinks you have forgotten her because you did not send her a Salam. Can you still read english nicely? I was very glad to see a few lines of Frederic in English I hope you will not forget it.

My precious David I send you plenty kisses and to your two brothers  Your Mama J. Gundert.

