 Tell 23 Nov <57>*

My dear wife

I don't know what possessed me yesterday to make such a bad account of my days. The idea is
__________________Monday Cuttaparambu Canoto
__________________Tuesday Periah pass
__________________Wednesday morning Manantoddy and inspection __________________Thursday evening - off after inspection
__________________Friday down Cuttiyadi pass to Vadagara
__________________Saturday early at Elattur and in to Calicut 
Fritz will today leave for Cann. I told you that C Müller will not stop there if he does not get more labor to do. Fr. will have some business to arrange all that. Diez trembles at the idea of returning to Cann. Here there is some irritation about expressions which Glasson brought over from Heb. f.i. I am not a common Miss[ionar]y I am a special Miss[ionar]y - chiefly on account of the mystery of Christ, which is hardly known to others and which he explains by 5 rose flower leaves, one called Son of Mary, the 2d Jesus, the 3d Christ the 4th the Father, the 5th the Holy Ghost. I heard nothing of the kind whilst I was there, but Fritz will ask. I must say that the eternal building in Cann. is to me the most vexatious business, for it prevents Heb from becoming an example to the brethren in all that refers to humility, obedience under Committee, care of money, and in general to moderation in all that concerns self. Fritz feels much better in body. Now farewell the Lord be with you
 Affly Your HG

Fritz will get books for Christmas and a set of new clothes is made for them -

