Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Mission house

 Mangalore 22 May 57
Dear papa.

It is so dark that I scarsly see to write If the weather continueth so I hope you will not think of moving from Calicut till it be better. Here the monsoon is much stronger than last year the wind fearful. You will have heard of poor Mr Hoch's building which came down yesterday night not that there was much wind then. He was so cast down yesterday about it that he begged no one would go near him. Today Kaundinya has gone for the Tamil and tulu preaching as it is the ascention day. I have stayed at home first because of Theophil and the girls and secondly it pours down so much and such a strong wind that I am too nervous to go out

Be sure you do not move from Calicut till it be better weather. Where are the Deggelers?

Miss Will was here yesterday as usual in every thing. She asked me one day what I thought about her writing to her relations in England to take her there! I said that I thought there was very little prospect of their doing so, for till now their interest in her has not gone beyond a chit of paper and even they have always shown as if they had but just anough for them selves to live without helping any one! however she was free to do as she thought right at least I suppose it is your mind too. Since that I never heard any thing; but I do not think she has written. In speaking about writing she repeated many times "as I have no friend here" Of coarse I did not say any thing to this, if she does not consider us as friends I see no use to try to argue in showing that we have been such and would be such if she had a bit of a child like mind. My second letter sent to Cochin has come back here! Nahum is some what better he had very bad dysentery! Our Johan has gone with the Deggelers of which I am glad; for he is not nice for a maty he is not clean at all. If you would require two to travel you would do well to get one from the Malayalam country.

After all Mr Pf thought it was too bad for the people to go down so Mr Houser made his first trial of speaking Tulu in our middle room, it was pretty well. The Hochs had in mind to come up imidiatly after the preaching; but as soon as he had returned from his English preaching he got an attack of vomiting. The trouble about the fall of his school has probably brough it on. Theophil is much better the appearance of the abcess is much smaller and not so hard, he has a good appetite. The standing walls of which Mr Hoch was afraid less they should fall and damage houses or people fell yesterday quietly in side without any hurt Hoch is pretty well. There was no meeting yesterday evening, no one came the weather being too bad. 
Now with love
 Yours Julie Gundert
Friday

