<Du lieber Friedrich kriegst das nächstemal so Gott will.>1

 Balmatha 14th June 57
My sweet precious boys

This morning we were much rejoiced in getting a nice letter from each of you that s to say Freddy and Paul. my sweet David was not yet in Bale, but now I believe he is and is very glad to see and be with his brothers and to have a good Mama in dear Miss Culman and I hope my precious David will love her like he did his Gundert mama and be obedient to her even more than your brothers of whom I am so glad to hear that they are going on nicely and like to learn. You know dear sons you cannot learn well if you do not pray to the Lord Jesus. I am glad my Frederic wishes to become a Missionary; but first of all he must learn to love the dear Lord Jesus else he can not be a missionary or a very bad one unable to do what is right that s to say love poor people even those who hate you despise you and bring them to the dear Saviour. I am glad you love much <Johannes Layer>1 and hope you will also pray with him.

I shall be glad to hear that my sweet Paul is doing well in the new school and not playing too many triks, Do you still remember when you said at being a little displeased with us. "Well I will run very far away in the jungles where you cannot catch me" Do you still think so? When David spoke in that way which he also liked to say now and then, he soon felt ashamed for he knows that he is a very coward boy and cannot boast of much for at night he cannot be alone even in my own bed he would say if I happened to turn on the other side: Mama look here to me I am afraid. So you two big boys you must be very kind to him and not leave him alone. You will be sorry dear David to hear that my poor Lydia has been very ill with fever, she is still in bed. I have asked her what I should tell you she sais "love" She forgets you already I believe; she begins to read a little; but her eyes are 2

Ebby does not forget you I see him very seldom now for he is with Mr Pfleiderer. When papa cuts wood he looks for some one to bring it instead of his David How is your friendship with Emanuel Amman? Do you love each other as formerly. Christian B. will find his brother Samuel depending on his love too, how did you get on with him? Now my very dear sons with plenty love and kisses I am
 your affectionate Mama
 Julie Gundert

