 Cal 18 May <57>*

My dear wife

Yesterday morning I preached about the end of John XVI. Rather hard for the voice on account of the fine echo. Fritz read the prayers compiled by our Liturgy Commission: and I was glad not to find them too tiresome, this being the first time I heard them. The people attentive - every thing must frofer, as I would say - and I trust also some amount of life and truth in the hearers. Hodges came also - and Laufer, who did not even understand where the Gospel was taken from. I believe Bosshardt is farther advanced than he in learning the language.

In the afternoon Fritz had the Catechization, which I liked. Ananda appeared at Church and told me, he was on his way to Palgh being sent before Heb who would still pass one week more at Cannanore. So I may still see him there if I make haste. The Comm. wish the Anjerc people to be divided amongst the stations rather than settled in a colony. God alone knows what is best

Herm's letter was particularly pleasing this time. I liked much his desire after strict Christians. Marie's is certainly better than former ones. - In the evening I accompanied for once the Fritz's to hear Lutyens. He gave an unobjectionable sermon, and I felt that once he may have had more than he has now. Fr had never heard him and would once go. That I visited Baynes I wrote you I believe. His brother George is in Canada. The Hodges relate all sorts of stories, also of poor Kübler, that he was married 3 or 4 times the first year, before every thing was in order - they dislike his wife - now she has born him twins. Farewell the Lord be with you
 Your HG

