2 Bellikeri 5 Oct 57

My dear wife

Yesterday evening I received your N.1. and thank our dear Lord for the mercy shown to sister Hoch. May the little girl grow up for his praise and glory. Yesterday was humiliation day, early in the morning we left in our Manjils the house of Lowry: where we had dined - talked - and slept till 5 A.M. Kleinknecht is not pleased with the man, nor was I over much pleased. The Capt. was there of the ship loading in Tadry harbour (500-600 tons, the first that has entered there in our times). He spoke much about money making. Lowry perceived what I aimed at and warned him of the presence of a clergyman (L. is a R Cath, but of the infidel variety). We had then a long conversation on the one thing needful, but as I found afterwards not quite to G<oddard>*'s taste. He should have been more pleased to hear me witness in Gomp's simple manner, than entering on their arguments. G. remained perfectly silent. When the Capt went to sleep on board, I accompanied him a little and urged him to come to Jesus. He took it not unwillingly. When I came back I could tell the Lowry's something of G's experience how he find Christ making up for all, to which he quietly said: yes, so I have found Him. To me it seemed quite enough, and as I thought, made impression. - I had miserable bearers in the morning, so we did not reach Ancola till 9 1/2 A.M. G. who went before prepared himself by prayer and walked to the 2storied house where that family lives: to show them due regards and love. He should gladly have run away with the infant, when he had it on his arms. Then to the little bangalow where <Seb.>* Müller was waiting for us. Dear G. told him "you will be astonished to see me come from that street, but" etc Afterwards we went to the Bellikerry bangalow 4 miles N. of Ancola. We arrived about noon had breakfast, prayers, sleep, at 4 PM Müller came as invited for dinner, which was not ready till 5. Then came also the young woman, without her infant and mother. After prayer G. spent 1/2 hour with her, and came back rather disappointed. The family will do nothing, till they hear from Taylor, or rather till T. comes (about end of Nov.) The girl was less moved, than when she left Mang. G. very tender, but resigned. I have now arranged with Müll. to leave this tomorrow evening, we travel together till Hallihal. M. has seen something of G's faith and will I trust, profit by it. Now farewell. If G. should not write, you will communicate the result to dear Gomp.

Love to all in the Lord
 Your H.G.

