 Calicut 17 Aug 57
My dear wife

This evening at last yours of the 14th came to hand, you were just expecting the children's letters. I hope you have enjoyed them by this time. Very glad to hear of Mrs Hoch being better. I had already been prepared for passing them on the road. - Saw Robinson today: also Dr Crocker, who had heard from Hebich - Visited the Provincl School and bought books for my Talook Schools. Passed the evening with the Schmids'. Mrs is always on the alert to catch me tripping; the old Papa hardly feels the difference of the spirits. I have tried to be agreeable but am not satisfied with myself. Still it is difficult to speak with persons so much older and that in the presence of their children. I must say I like the old man better than her, tho' she may have more light, or rather just because she has more light, and acts throughout with a much more conscious countereffort. Still I believe that God's blessing is on the family. - You will have heard that the Hunter's, that young Miss[ionar]y family on board the Orwell, have been killed at Sealcote. Also Mr Hubbard at Agra, the man who was formerly Headmaster of the Provl School here, and after Conolly's death said, he would not remain in Malabar to be killed by Mapillas, so went and got a sickcertificate prescribing to him a stay beyond the tropics. He took a place vacant at Agra: and people who know him ascribe it to his indolence that he did not leave his house and take refuge in the fort when the mutineers from Neemcut* approached the Cantonment. Mrs Hoernle's house etc will also have been burnt. But God be praised, the worst is evidently over. May we be very thankful for our preservation and trust the Lord the more for all that may yet be in store.

Mrs Fritz appears to be better today, less of that fainting. Dr Cleveland treats her, and hints about change to Europe: but the hint is not taken. Degg. always said to be anxious if no news are given about the mutineers, supposes continually that one hides the worst from him. Now farewell. The Lord bring us soon together
 Your HG.
