Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry1, Mission house

 Mangalore 24th <May 57>*
Dear papa

I have to thank you for two kind letters of the 18th and 19th. I am indeed not very diligent in writing I do not know how I manage. Now and then I think you have plenty letters from other people consequently need not more. formerly I thought I had to give you news about the sweet David or the other Children; now alone what to say? We have again fine days of which I am glad. the two hard days of monsoon we had made me very nervous and melancholy, such as I had not been for a long time, all was black and dark. Friday evening Mr Gompertz paid a short visit said that Major C. would already be here before the end of the month. He has at once offered money to help the rebuilding of the school and has sent a pettition to the Gentlemen of the place in its behalf. I was also peculiarly pleased to hear from Mrs Hoch that Mr Kaundinya had at once offered and promised 200 Rs for it besides she told me that he had promise too to pay a good sum for the building of the Church here. An appeal to the schollars has also been made in behalf of the school I do not know the results Poor Kübler Mrs Hoch says that he was said on the Hills to be the finest looking man in the world a real beauty. all this with his talents where is the use? What the meaning of his having been married three or four times. Mr K. said as I asked that perhaps he had had a bad life before his marriage. I was glad to hear of Mrs Connoly getting better for other wise it would have been fearful with such an evil spirit. May be a lesson to those who have a mind to gether money. it is indeed much worse than to fall in a gros sin!

The Dr comes daily to see Theophil who is much better the Dr is of a pretty good spirit though not exactly spiritual which after all is worse than to grieve as he does some time. Hoch is well again, she pretty well too Yesterday and to day no rain at all, at night some. I would have been glad to see the Hodges. West has not yet come from Mercara. their second daughter's marriage was in the papers I hear. Have you seen the son at all? 
I am going to the preaching. I wish you a good day many blessings with the bretheren. My love to all at Tellicherry. If there is some one from Chombala say that the two small baskets sent by Mrs Anderson for Mrs Muller s children are here still no opportunity to send them
 Yours Julie Gundert

