 Mangalore 19me Avril 1857

My very dear sons Frederic, Paul.

A few days ago we received a letter from you at least from Frederic telling that Paul had the measels; by this time he is well we trust and you have perhaps kept the bed after him. I am glad to hear you have to make your brother's bed it is a very good thing if children learn to do every thing and work in the house. Your brother Herman did it before he was 8 years old and had joy to care of his brother. You have also joy I hear to keep good things for Paul;

But my sweet Frederic you are now ten and I see by your description of the boys that much younger ones than you are far before you at school! What 27th? Whats the matter tell me? if want of talent we will bear with it; but if it is negligence and carelessness what shall we say; but feel very much grieved. Which is the cause of your being so backward tell us in your next letter?

Papa will soon have to travel about much to see the schools pretty far away; so I shall be very much alone; but as I have good work with women and children I shall D.V fill up the time with them.

Mr Hebich is just here for a visit. You remember him I suppose dont you? With his long beard it is becoming quite white, he loves you still very much, the sweet David was a great favorit of him the dear boy is not very far from you now perhaps he will be with you when you get this letter, if so I send him plenty kisses, it is now 3 months they have left us and we cannot expect to hear from them before two monthes.

Last night for the first time since you have left I dreamed of you and saw you in the Kinderhouse; but you did not look a bit like your portrait! 
I should like to see your joy when all your brothers come to see you with Marie and perhaps tante Uranie will come with her, to Bale.

Now dear boys tell me do you like to hear Bible stories and do you pray? You cannot learn well dear boys if you do not pray God to help you. 
With plenty kisses
 Your Mama
 Julie Gundert

My dear Frederic when you ... you are becoming angry ...as ...on...ickly pray to the dear Lord Jesus and he will help you it is quite sure he likes to help little children.
