Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Tell Sunday 22 Nov 57
My dear wife

Today your letter with Ernst's etc came also the news of Convert's arrival. I then preached English - Misses Brown etc (whom I had yesterday evening seen with their father at Brennen's) but Brennen himself does not come for months. I had been talking to him yesterday when Brown came and interrupted us - Br had said that he looked to Jesus alone and also prayed to him - Returning from service I met the horse which HK had despatched on the 16th only (instead of 12th) - so I hope D.V. to depart 23 evening, be 24th and 25th at Manantoddy - and may 27th early be at Elattur and in want of the little pony for part of the way if nothing else is to be had. If delayed Saturday morning (28th) will be the date. I shall now make haste - and if I can, go already the following week off to Ponany and Malapuram, in order to be by the middle of Dec at Mang if the next letters should hold out farther hopes. Fr. is pretty well, will go to Heb. tomorrow - for hard work 
Heb is certainly right, but he does many things very much against order and union - f.i. his eternal buildings - I quite wonder how he ventures to do it without money for at present he has nothing. the Müller's won't stay at Cann. except there be great changes, first in the house, then in labour. - Every one here is against Richter getting Miss Schmidt. Would she not do for Aldinger rather than what he may choose out of the 7-8 proposed to him. I see Carr is better again. May the Lord help him and us all according to His grace
 Yours HG

