Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

 Cann 30 July 57. 12 PM
My dear wife

It is midnight, but as I drank Coffee I feel quite awake yet to write a few words about my first trip. From Ottala to Cassergode I had enough of rain - but then some quiet hours during which I slept. Was much delayed by the highwater in the rivers, reached Hosdrug with sunrise and Cavay 10 1/2. Changara had arrived the evening before and ordered a boat. We took to it at once, but it was evening before we arrived at Valarp. for the same spot which has detained me several times before was again only inchdeep in some places. This time I got 12 Puleias for 3 Annas to pull the boat over, using for this purpose 3 ricepestles to roll the boat on. When I had paid 1/4 R and expected thanks for my generosity they showed me that they were* the deceived party, for they had understood 3 Annapieces, which means 6 As: I paid of course what they imagined to have bargained for. In Valarp. no bearers, so I engaged Maplas. When I came out before them near the Mosk and tank, some of the drunken Mucwer's ordered out for me perceived what was going on and had a regular fight with the Mop's about the Manjil. At last the Mapl. yielded with the help of an Inam and I was jogged into Cann by the most rascally set of bearers I ever met with, even at Cavay. Half of them were boys, 2 others very old drunkards and masters in this science. It was 9 1/2 PM before I came to Hebich's. Saw also Diez talked with Heb. till midnight. I also paid a visit to Chir. but as it made me sad I won't enter into the little episode. Told the girls your Selams, took a lantern and made haste to be off. Strobel very nice of Lehm's also the very best hopes. Youngs weller1 at Salem. Just now I discover on Heb's table the enclosed note for me, which after all had not been sent. But you see how he meant to care for me. I came well through wet and bearers, 2 elements which I think would harrass you more than me. Dr Crocker is sent to Calicut. Tomorrow I will go off about noon, as I have the promise of getting Cann. bearers. Now farewell, love to all, esp Kaund who will have been surprised, but I was not a moment too early in my departure. I hope Sister Hoch is giving the Dr's less trouble! The Lord grant it and protect us all to the end  Yours H Gdt

Please tell Haller the table clothes were badly packed and became very wet; esp the lowest for Mrs Chatfield and the upmost for Mrs Drew: I shall charge 1 1/2 for Stevens 1/2 for Mrs Drew and 1/2 for Mrs Chatfield. Let Haller pay you 2 1/2 Rs for this purpose. But no more. Send in this manner or the credit is spoiled!
 Yours affly
 HGdt

