<Mlle Marie Gundert>1

 Mangalore 14th June 57
My very dear Marie

For a whole month we have not heard from you; and by your last you did not know as yet that D.V. you shall come soon to us. I trust that by God's grace you come to us as one who has found happiness and peace in God whose forgiveness alone can make us joyful and happy. It shall be indeed a great favour from our God to see you again and enjoy together that love of parents and children - which we scarcely have experienced having been separated from each others while you were still so young and I was at the time so ill and so irritated that you have or can have almost no recollection of tenderness and love from me. So I shall be thankful to the Lord to bring you in our midst and enable us to be to each other joy and comforts. I look for ward with joy and fear, I say fear lest I should be disappointed; But we trust in the Lord and hope He will bring you and make all right. Papa who has now much to travel with his new appointement will be glad during his long absence to feel there is one with me <to watch over Mama and report about her.>1 I would have liked very much to hear from Corcelles as the last time you wrote My brother and sister were so poorly? Now that you be gone from them I shall hear very seldome from them, by this time you are near going to Bale and perhaps to Stuttgard for it will be probably the last time you see them all, perhaps this finds you there already. David will specially be delighted at your coming to India, as he often said: I will not leave you till my sister comes!

We heard from them this morning that is to say of Frederic and Paul and from Dear Miss Culman, who very kindly joins usually a few lines to theirs which are to us very precious as we like to know from her how are the boys! In Stutgard you must give to dear Mama, Tante Emma, sister Emma and Jette plenty kisses from me. and give them also my special thanks for their love and cares of your brothers: Herman writes that he was loaded with presents from them on his birthday. I feel truly thankful to them for the motherly love they have to our dear sons

I have plenty to do here so that between Mrs Hoch and myself you will find very nice work. I have been lately less well than usual and feel that I can no more do as formerly nor bear fatigues. I am thankful that we are living in a cool nice place comapared to Cherical

1Nur noch ein Wort des Grusses. Mama konnte nicht fertig werden, so viele Abhaltungen gab es. Gott lasse es Dir ein Anliegen werden ihr helfen zu können, wenn Du kommst. Mit dem Geist der Demuth und Liebe ist das leicht. Ohne ihn unmöglich. Wenn Du aber suchst und bittest, findest und kriegst Du über Bitten und Verstehen.

Ich schliesse Dich Gottes Obhut empfehlend. Es ist uns lieb wenn Du mit Peregrina Isenberg bald einen Reisegefährtenbund schließen kannst, und der Engel Gottes geleite euch
 Dein Vater
16 Juni

