 <13 Nov>1 <57>*

Dear papa

Here all as usual, a letter of Meogling Fritz says not wanted to be sent you, he asks for an Almira to be sent to him! Now I send you there the list of the thread kindly send to Mrs Irion her portion, give the one of Mrs Muller and send the tin box to Mangalore with the portion of Mrs Hoch the box is her own this year She knows about it The needles are all for me and the school here: The thread which shall remain after giving every one their portion according to the list keep for me. I do not know how much; but never mind!

Mrs Holloway invited us both for Dinner so I have told my decree to stay at home. the writer is finishing the report! Had I thought of the thread while you were here I would have given you the lists or orders. If Mrs Muller asks after her long cloth say that it will be returned from Mangalore as Mr Pfl does not like to have his box opened where the cloth is. it shall come by and by

Now dear papa pardon haste from yours
 J. Gundert

Darning cotton is also for Mrs Muller for me nothing but needles and cloth and the cloth is in Pfl s box


I miss Mrs Muller's order So after you have parted for Mang for the Diez Chiracal and Mrs Irion let Mrs Muller take as much as she likes or rather Mrs Diez who is in her stead at Chombala, She may take all except a few dozen of red reels I would like to keep No 4 No 5 7 No 8 No 10 - No 12. one dozen of each, the wool and book are for Mrs Muller she had ordered it. I am truly very sorry to miss her letter about the orders she had given. She wrote it after ward There are two notes of Mrs Irion if there is thread anough to give her according to the largest order let her have it; If you have too much trouble in deviding the thread let it all come to this place and I shall do it

in haste
 Yours affectly
 J. Gundert.

