 29 Dec <57>*

My dear wife

HK says that Mgl wishes to get the Sanscrit Panchatantra back. Fritz will find the book and give it Richter to take it up to Coorg - Degg. begs by all means to send to him the 2 boxes. There ought to be no delay as D's will probably soon go home. The 2 gridles for David might perhaps be sent along. - Today letters from the boys. Herm. in considerable straits with Tante Emma, who has still the old lover manners. He wishes if possible soon to leave Stuttg and would be most gladly with us. I think it will answer tomorrow and send the letter via Bombay. Henceforth you know there will be 4 mails to Engld and Europe - 2 leave Bombay the 9th and 24th and 2 Madras on the 13th and 27th - I saw Miss Gundert in the newspaper - The Comm. write very strongly - I think Insp is very excited on the subject of the Tell. Cat. School - he views it as real disobedience etc I am very sorry also for dear Fritz that he cannot look calmly upon the matter. He also blames Fritz for not opposing Heb's money spending in a more determinate manner. To me it appears very wrong, I must say thus to lecture old brethren who have done matters as they thought to the joy of the Comm. But there is a rumour that Insp has had some fight with the Comm. and even that he may not belong in the Comm. Some talk of Staudt as his successor. This might also prove a mistake. But we must wait on the Lord. Our letter about Sister Fritz's death and the consequent transmigration to Calicut has not come to St. from Basle. Only my Hoobly letter reached them. - I hope only Fr does not take these things much to heart for a month already may change the air considerably. Now then farewell. - Mrs D.<egg>* spoke openly about him to me, the best is to let him go home overland. So I wrote to Hebich The Lord will direct
 Yours affly H Gdt

