Mrs Gundert, Mangalore

 Ancola 6 Oct 57
My dear wife

Yours of the 2d reached me yesterday. I am very sorry that H.<och?>* instead of seeking a heart's conversion permitted the Devil thus to lead him by the nose. S<eb>* M<üller(?)>* as I suspected, knew of it. Not the name, but H<aller(?)>* wrote to him that for many reasons he thought it better to marry a native, and that he had found one fitted for him, loving her Savior in all simplicity, but not yet acquaninted with his sentiments for her. M. half dissuaded him from it, seeing that there would be many difficulties in such a case. I hope however that the brethren have looked at the matter in too dark a light. What correspondence f.i. could he carry on - in English or Canarese? Certainly he must in all such undertakings have been convinced before hand, that there was danger in such correspondence, and I should therefore have rather wished the one letter of which there was evidence had been read and well understood, rather than torn. I thought for a moment: should I advise a speedy marriage? H. has permission - the Comm. will not be so much against it as the brethren of the Station. Only no hubbub for such causes! Therefore let there be a calm consultation and then advice ought to be given as to what is to be done. - Dear G. is rather cast down about the family, he feels interested in. Today he preached Christ for one hour and 1/2 to them: but he will follow my advice and go farther northwards. For he sees of course that such intercourse must not be indefinitely prolonged. Tomorrow therefore he will move on. I am to go this evening with SM to Soonksal - I shall make haste to get over the ground. Here I saw Tahsildar etc about school - My companion <S. Müller>* ist not yet converted as far as I can see. God keep you and let his face shine on all that seek him
 Yours HG

