Dr H. Gundert, Cannanore, Mission house

 Calicut 13th N 57

Dear Papa
I have just received yours from Vadagary for which accept my thanks, I am glad to hear all went so well and that Rama serves you properly. I got the keys from Changaran

The very evening you left Glassen came in through him we heard of Mr Langly as he calls him; he does not think that he is converted because he heard him say that he goes to Mr Hebich's chapel because it is a small church; for he does not like to meet where there are many people and he consents to all what Mr Hebich Mr H says because it is of no use to argue, he does not like to contradict. So much Glassen told us; but whether he is able to juge I dont know for he himself is still unconverted and takes light for darknes and darkeness for light in the believers. At least it appears so to be of the few persons I heard him speak of. Here all as usual Fritz received a letter from his wife sister so we may hope to morrow to get also from our children

Is dear Mr Hebich soon to come this way? Tell the people how much I would have liked to come there and see them all I send them plenty love to all from Chovay Cherical Cannanore etc Glassen met the horsekeeper of Dr Crocker who told to his own horsekeeper that his master had gone to Cannanore to Marry Miss Tompson we suppose. I would be glad if we were to get her here. Give them my love specially to Mrs Tompson whom I have been glad to meet once more. What news of their son?

Kindly tell Mrs Muller to oblige me much in getting 12 hooks chrochets made for us of the finest sort I have coarse and people here can make coarse but no fine one. I should like to get them as soon as possible I shall be much obliged for them forget not this

Mr F is going to enquire as you from Mr Lawson. Yesterday Mrs and Miss Hall with Mr Crowther called Hanna Fritz had a paralitick strock the right shaulder has been paralised for some time. She is again well; but pour Mrs Fritz is anxious about her

Nowith love to all
 yours affectly
 J. Gundert.

Keep for you what I say about the Stranger Mr Fritz is afraid for Glassen what he has said should not be repeated to Mr H who would tell it to the dit Mr L. and create ill feelings in glassen

