4 Yellapoor 8 Oct 57

My dear wife

I left Ancola about sunset the 6th, walked and talked a great deal with S<eb.>* M<üller>* who came along with his pony. Passed yesterday at Sunksaul. It looks as if the Lord would bless this long conference for yesterday evening M<üller>* finished by resolving, he would seek the Lord and the forgiveness of his sins in the first place. We had then prayer together better than before this last evening, for M. had not got over a certain bitterness till very late. - Dear Godd. will have some hard days after his exertions at Anc. which apparently are fruitless. I warned him off from continuing there longer: for they were beginning to listen with some interest, but as I think, chiefly in order to keep him tight. It is a case which requires much hoping against hope. May the Lord keep our dear brother unshaken in His trust in Him alone, who will and can rescue the child, where everything looks desperate.

Saldanha who lives at Sunksal was rather nice. Also his wife whom I saw but a moment. Sald. does now all the work M. had formerly or rather he did it, for at present all roadwork is stopped. I think he grows in Scr knowledge but he confesses that he is not exactly hot.

Mrs. M. had asked her husband what he supposed was thought of her at Mang. He said at once: nobody thinks you converted: which seems to have some what shocked her. But she confessed having been very lightminded and giddy on board ship etc - and once she begged his pardon with tears for all she had done at Mang against him (asked me if she should marry him etc). It was a long time before she confessed to him, I had warned her of his infidel notions: which had of course irritated him deeply. But I trust he will now be saved, and may we help them with our poor prayers. Love to all in the Lord.  Yours HG

