<Masters Frederick & Paul Gundert>1

 <9 Dec. 55>1
2My very dear boys

In my last letter I told you that we were longing to see the Owen Glendover, which was to bring your portraits.

On the third of this month she arrived, on the 4th papa and myself and David with Mr Irion who had come from Tellicherry, we all were opening the boxes in great haste and anxiously seeking for your <Daguerrotypes>1 and what do you think, after having opened all the boxes nothing was to be found; then only we perceived that the very box in which they were had by mistake remained in the ship, which had already left for Bombay, so we have now to wait some weeks longer. - This morning I had great joy to receive letters from you and to see how nicely you write English; but I am specially glad to hear from your Aunt that you are good and obedient children, and that you like to pray, we also daily pray for you to the dear Lord Jesus, that He may give you new hearts and a living faith to His holy word, tell us also in your letters what you hear in the preachings and in the instructions which are kindly given you. The dear Lord Jesus has been so very good to you, dear sons, in giving you such kind and affectionate Aunt and so many people who love you and care for you, I hope you are thankful to God who has given them to you <and grateful>1 to them. David who is now sitting by my side asks to whom I am writing, he sends you plenty kisses and salaams. To day we had a holyday. Miss Will, Miss Kegler David 40 girls and myself have spent the day at Cannanore to look at the fine things which Mr Richter has brought out. Major and Mrs Young, Mrs West and her daughters were there too, we were all very much amused with the Electric Telegraph invention, with the steam carriage, a steam mill, and with the Photographic machine to take the likenesses; but we were much dissappointed to find that dear Mr Richter was not able to take our likenesses to be sent to you as you desire it, because there is something wrong in the machine; but we hope by and by it will be put aright so as to be of use in this country - 
Mr Hebich is at present at Palghaut so papa is going to preach in his stead to Cannanore, Asnath has married and has gone to Tellicherry, and there are at present at school 68 children and 12 women, all those of them who knew you ask often after you and send you plenty salaams, and especially Jacob and Rahel, Nathanael, and some of the girls, Ruth, Dorcas, Phebe, Charlotte, etc.

Now my sweet boys I must say adieu. Wishing you a very good Christmas, even the best of all that is Christ in your hearts, with a tender kiss  your affectionate Mother
 Julie Gundert1


2In dieser Woche erhielten wir 2 Briefe von euch, einen im Schächtelein an David, und einen durch die Post. David dankt schön. Ich will ihn unterschreiben lassen. Er liest übrigens besser als er schreibt. Jetzt habt ihr lange Abende und paßt aufs Christkindle. Ich weiß auch noch wie einem da zu Muthe ist und wünsche euch viel Geduld und eine fröhliche Bescheerung, nachher aber besonders einen recht langen Dank, der ins Neue Jahr währet. Ich bin Herrn Richter zum Versuch hingesessen, es hat aber kein Bild auf die Platte kommen wollen. Jetzt wollen wir eben warten und sehen wenn es recht wird. Im nächsten Jahr dürft ihr vielleicht nach Stuttg. Fragt dann die liebe Mama (d.h. eure Großmama) ob sie euch nicht ein kleines Daguerrotyp von uns geben könne, das von einem Daguerrotyp abgemacht ist. Sie hat ausserdem noch ein größeres, das wir von Lyon schickten. Nun der HErr segne euch und Euren
 Vater
9 Dec 1855

Unsere Elisabeth Mimi soll bald Frau Diez werden. Heute fragte mich David auf dem Spaziergang: How far is heaven and earth! Wißt ihrs? 

1I thank you <for box and picture> David

