An Friederich und Paul Gundert

 [19th April 1855]
My dear Eddy Vow!

It is the 19th April <1855>*, and this morning I got the pictures of your 2 brothers Hermann and Samuel. How they have grown Mama and I did no more know them. Oh said she, now we ought also to have the pictures of dear Eddy and sweet Vow. But I did not tell her, that I had ordered such pictures: I want them to come before Mama even dreams of it. However I said, yes this is a nice idea, we must get their pictures by and bye. - Only fancy dear boys our good Doctor Foulis died very suddenly on the 10th of this month. He was such a great help in all sickness, and so kind to the poor black people, we shall not soon see his like here. Mrs Foulis was very sad, when she came down from Coorg (for there she had been near Mr Mögling, along with her sister Mrs Young) and when she arrived and asked, he was already buried for a whole day. Mr Hebich buried him, where you saw Christine buried, and he gave to all the people that crowded the burial ground a very fine sermon. That was very easy, because all were very sorry, and knew that Dr Foulis had loved Jesus, and served him with his whole heart, and so none doubted in the least of his being now happy with his Lord. That is a fine thing to be sure of. Dear boys try to get it for yourselves. When we buried Mr Sandeman, Mr Foulis stood near his grave and felt at once, I shall soon follow him: now he has done so. I am sure you will tell this news to Mrs Müller and Bühler and Huber if they are near you

Da schicke ich auch noch alte Briefe von Paul, die im Cannanur Kasten (für die Sonntagskleider) niedergelegt waren. vielleicht liest er sie noch einmal mit Lust und sucht sich die alten Erinnerungen zu bewahren und aufzufrischen. David ist ziemlich lustig, doch ißt er fast nichts, es ist zu heiß - nur zu Früchten hat er Lust er grüßt euch herzlich und freut sich überaus auf euer Bild. Der HErr behüte Euch.

 Mama küßt euch wie auch Papa

