Rev S. Hebich, Ottacamund

 Cann. 29th June 55
<(englisch daß ers auch Groves zeige - wegen des Kindes seiner Tochter Ellen)>*

My dear brother <Hebich>*

I herewith send the counterpart of the bond you sent me and confess that I did not bring it together without some doubts and questions within myself. We speak of a child - suppose, there are children, what then? I also intended to add something like this "I am willing to increase the sum returned in case of the child dying early according to the circumstances of the case, on the understanding that the valuation of the expenses incurred during the longer or shorter life of the Child be left entirely to my discretion" - but after all I feared to make more words than are wanted. It is a transaction of trust - I hope the lawyers will never get hold of it - but if I write anything of the kind, I appear to pledge also my heirs or the Mission brethren that may be my executors - and I think it better not to increase the number of such bonds and ties - But you will tell dear Mr Groves that such is mine and my wife's intention. The latter urged me to put it into the bond - but after some wavering I finished it as you have it - with few words. May God give his blessing to our poor intentions and bring glory to Himself out of all these humiliating occurrences. With our united love to yourself the dear Groves' and all other friends with you  Yours affly in Christ
 H Gundert
1Lieber Heb.

Ich schreibe Dir englisch, Du kannst wenn Du willst den Brief an J.G. abgeben, ich habe nichts dagegen, aber Y<oung>* warnte mich, nicht zuviel in mein Versprechenpapier zu setzen und ich halte es so für recht. Y. hat einen cold - der Brig. hat von einem möglichen Bruch zw. Preussen und Engld gehört und spricht schon davon these Missionaries wegzuschicken, er will keine Spionen haben. Er benimmt sich ziemlich gemein und dumm. Russld hat in der relig das rechte System wie er meint, nur ein Glaube (er weiß nicht daß in Russld auch Protesttn gelitten sind). Jgfr G.<roves>* ist eben sehr shallow und confus, will aber glauben beten und brav seyn - alles miteinander. Sie kennt sich selbst noch nicht recht, gibt aber ordentliche Hoffnung.



2I the undersigned H Gundert, Missionary, residing at Chiracal near Cannanore do hereby promise, to maintain and educate to the best of my ability the child, for which Mr John Groves at Ottacamund will pay the sum of fifteen hundred Rupees, - and to cover all its expenses with the interests of the said sum - Should it please God that the Child should die before its fifteenth year is completed I promise to return to Mr Groves or his heirs the sum of one thousand Rupees within one year from the Child's demise [and I am willing to increase this sum according to the circumstances of the case on the understanding that the valuation of the expenses incurred during the longer or shorter life of the Child be left entirely to my discretion]3 <ohne diesen Zusatz>

Signed in the presence of

Cannanore 28th June 1855

