Fräulein Jette Enßlin, Stuttgardt

 Cann. 21 Dec. 55.
My dear cousine <Henr Enßlin>*

I have hardly time to write much at this hour but as Julie has written in haste a bit of answer to your welcome letter of Oct. (received yesterday) I will add a few words to enclose it. I am much amused by your dilemmas and questions on the subject of education. My idea is that education can hardly be taught. Christian education can only be exercised and is more of an art than a science. Ziehen, to draw, is certainly different from pushing or driving - and I think children ought to be drawn up by those who have the vocation to their own attainments. The disciple can't go beyond the master: (that is as long as he has merely one) the author of the 119 psalm could rejoice in being made wiser than his teachers, but that was in consequence of having taken God's word for his highest teacher. After all men educate accordg the Ebr. XII,10 after their own pleasure: however much they may follow systems, they will on emergencies show the impulses by which they are governed and will make a correspondg impression on children. Evangelical men may appear very legal yet the child will discover sooner or later a difference between them and those whom the Gospel has not yet made free, and we have to pray only that God use all the occurrences he may serve himself of, for approving the God sent teacher and educator to the child's conscience. Aunt writes that also our children at Basle are said to be most difficult to educate. I do not care very much about it, because these sort of things are often said at the spur of the moment: but certainly Fred. is a very difficult child and we cannot boast of having brought him very far, on the whole he and Paul were treated less strictly by us than H. and S. both of whom were really for years very subject and obedient to their Mama who gave herself much to them. Now of course we know nothing experimentally of educating big boys or girls: but we have our black children. I do not think we are too loose with them: nor do I approve altogether the education my boys have or had in Stuttg. I think our father was quite the man for me Ludwig (Theodor also): but afterwards the Grandfather predominated in him and that I believe was a pity in Herm's case. As for Sam. I think he had what he wanted and Christianele would also have been easily reared in the Bibelhaus. But Marie I fear would not come right in the Bazar. We pray that the Lord bless to her the transition time until she get a willing mind to profit by the opportunities offered to her by her stay at Kornthal. - Our love to your dear Mama and Aunts. Also please at Esslingen! The Lord give dear Selma a happy entrance into His glory. She may well be tired of earth! Oh may we all be ready for the call when ever we shall hear it! In much haste
 Ever yours affly
 in J.Ch.
 H Gundert

