 <Chiracal 2 Aug 55.>1
My very dear and sweet boys

How glad I was to receive a letter from you and such a fine one, much better than I could have expected It gives me much joy to hear that you pray to the dear Lord Jesus for a new heart in order to return to us Yes I do hope you will love the dear Saviour and serve Him and show this love in obeying and loving your two aunts who are so very good and kind to you. It is exceedingly kind too of the Dear Inspector to teach you every sunday I hope you listen well and try to give answers.

I shall be very glad for you when ever you see your brothers and sister. Your uncle Francois my brother will also soon pay you a visit. My precious Frederic is getting such fine teeth I should like to see him, and you sweet Vau how are yours, have you no more pain? David is as ever full of life and always merry, he likes to hear about you, when I read him your letter yesterday he said give it me I will keep it well and kissed it. On sunday in going to Cannanore he still runs under the big <Portuguese Mango>1 tree where you used to hide yourselves and askes for "pasha" <gum Harz>1 You remember I dare say that fine tree near the Catchery. We never come near it without thinking of our sweet Eddy and Vau who tried to frighten their papa who passed by. We are also making the road in the same place where you did help in carrying stones to papa who broke them We are also every day cleaning the compound, You remember how you did help me and the girls to pull the bad grass. David is doing just the same with his mattock he digs every where wrong and right making gardens in every direction. He is still very fond of his Mimi. We have some new girls since you left, Dorcas is doing the Maity's business. Priscilla will soon die, The blind Elisabeth is also ill. We have tow little babas only a few days old, David likes them. All the people here send you plenty Salams, Jacob, Nani, <Jette>1 Hanna, the Missis, Gideon, Salome every one 88 persons would like to have their names mentioned to you; but now enough Adieu my very dear sons
 Your affectionate Mama


1David läßt auch in der Regenzeit sein Wams hinten nicht knöpfen: so daß er wie mit 2 Flügeln herumspringt und einen sonneverbrannten Rücken hat. Knöpft mans so macht ers bald wieder auf, so sehr ist ihm die Hitze zuwider. Wir haben von Frau Foulis des Dr's Cacadu geschenkt erhalten Dieser Cacadu hat den David recht lieb, wenn aber David ein Hühnlein bringt und ihm hinhält so wird der schöne weisse Vogel schröcklich böse und alle seine Federn sträuben sich, daß er curios aussieht.

The Pullichi has got a fine calf the Acca from Aden gives more milk than her Mama ever did. Wißt ihr wessen Haar das ist: ihr habts ponmudi geheissen, ist das nicht ein sonderbares Wort?
 Herzlich grüßt euch Euer Vater

