<an Brown in England>*

 <15-20 Marz 1844>*
My dear Sir,

I have duly received your kind letter of the 10th Nov. 43 and should have hastened to acknowledge it sooner, if the uncertainty of your movements had not prevented me. I thought for some months, you might perhaps return to India before the Monsoon, but now hearing nomore to this effect, I will thank you for the kind notice you took of my last communication as well as for the acceptable present you sent to us through your brother. We deeply sympathize with the feelings with which you have ... watching the declining state of Mrs Allport's health, and pray that in sickness and death she may have the everready assistance of Him, who for us has conquered sin and death and is always nearest where most needed.

You will already have heard from your brothers, that Paul at the time when you wished me to greet him, was no more at Anjercandi: and there is no reason why I should not speak it out that I was glad of the change. I hoped he might be sincere but I had many doubts of ... seeing him so fond of display and outward appearance - once also drunk -, and looking much more like a time and man server than like a servant of God. We were able to offer a better person in his stead, not like Paul a self made Catechist, but one trained for the office in the Tinnevelly Mission and now connected with us for nearly 5 years. He is humble and therefore much more liked by the flock than Paul who for a long time laboured only to magnify his own person in comparison with that of his predecessor etc. <(Paul ging fort 1 Oct 43)>* 
Permit me now to explain why I have not acted up to your suggestion of accompanying your message to the native Church with any marks of notice or indulgence. In the first place I have often had occasion to remark, that presents intended to make the receiver thankful, and to spur the others, have ended by making the one proud, the rest envious. So especially with these poor people. The changes in their minds are very sudden, the disappointments sometimes severe. Many wished to be baptized, only to have free acces to the toddyshop, many are angry for being excluded from the Lord's supper, because they look upon it as a dishonour. They cannot accurately distinguish between their station in the Church and their worldly position. It does depress me sometimes deeply, to see so much of worldly wishes and expectations among them, in consequence of which the power of their witness opposite to the heathens is greatly impaired. But I take the liberty to mention to you also another reason. I have anxiously avoided to meddle with anything relating to the administration of your plantation and to confine myself solely to the souls of the hearers. But I feel it a hardship to be silent before you on a point, the mentioning of which may under God's providence be preventive of mischief. I must then say, that the confidence which formerly prevailed between your labourers and their masters is no more the same, as when you were present. The changes which government demand proper to adopt, with regard to the liberty and the Tindal of the slaves have greatly losened the ties which formerly connected your people with the soil of Anjercandy. This would not have been the case, had they not for years had grounds for complaining and had not the Tiers (and Moplas) kept up a continual agitation by their misrepresent. Especially since the Nair Menon has been supplanted by a Tier, they are tyrannized by the latter class. Benefits which they formerly received have been withheld, and a distrustful treatment adopted, which seems <thus provoking them> from to invite them to seek labour some where else. The fining system has been extended to inquiries about the govt measures (it has reached in one case the sum of 10 Rs for one misdeed of one person, - on one payday the whole community have been deprived of their customary fanam, on account of a suspected theft of firewood from a shop accessible only to Tierservants by day, to watchmen not of the Puleiar cast by night): the proceeds of fines have for years been applied to other uses than those which you instituted. Medical aid is furnished only through a Pulluwen, who has not the confidence of these lowcasts, applications for European medicines are rejected, in a few cases given grudgingly. I mention these 2 points because I have been induced, after hearing of them for a long time apparently unconcerned, to do something towards remedying them, I have in a few cases assisted the person fined, the first was when an individual was fined 2 Rs for remonstrating with a Tier about familiar approaches made to his wife. There may have been want of respect, but I was glad to see once a lowcast impatient in his expressions of such dishonour. I have also of late given some medicines to those desirous of it. If I did wrong in both these cases, I trust I erred on the right side. During these 5 years I have had several times occasions to prevent parties from executing their design of running away. Not that I wish to magnify my forwardness to serve your interests: mine are in so far identical with yours as I know that this work commenced in these despised people can only prosper if they be kept together. With this view I have ventured to meddle with their private concerns in the manner stated, and to comfort them again and again with the hope of your return <for I am deeply sensible of the inconvenience attaching to the position>. - So much I think it right to tell you and leave it to your discretion whatever use you may make of the communication. I do not invite you, to enquire into the correctness of what I say - because I fear it might do injury to those I wish to benefit: nor do I entreat you to regard it as altogether a private communication, because the Gospel which I serve does everywhere denounce secrecy. I should have been conscious of doing wrong if the uniformely kind behaviour of your brothers towards me had stopped my mouth, when a word from me spoken in its time might under God be a means of stopping the progress of evident evil.

I thus occupy in the people's minds, and pray it may be changed the sooner the better.


