True Extracts from Rough Copies of my letters <an Brown/London>* 
I. addition (22 May 44)

Many wish to be baptized only to have free access to the Toddyshop. Many are angry (etc till - position). It does depress me sometimes deeply to see so much of worldly wishes and expectations among them, in consequence of which the power of their witness opposite to the heathen is greatly impaired.

But I take the liberty of mentioning to you also another reason. I have anxiously avoided to meddle with any thing relating to the administration of your plantation and to confine myself solely to the souls of the hearers. But I feel it a hardship to be silent before you on a point, the mentioning of which may under God's providence be preventive of mischief. I must then say, that the confidence (etc. printed in Italics) This would not have been the case, had they not for years had grounds for complaining and had not the Tiers (and Maplas) kept up (etc till "measures"). Especially since the Nair Menon has been supplanted by a Tier the caste with which Mr Brown's halfbrothers stand in very old family connexions they are tyrannized by the latter class. Benefits which they formerly received have been withheld and a distrustful treatment adopted which seems to invite them to seek labour somewhere else. The fining system has been extended (it has reached in one case the sum of 10 Rs for one misdeed of one person.) On one payday the whole community (of Christian labourers) have been deprived of their customary fanam on account of a suspected theft of firewood from a shop accessible only to Tierservants by day, to watchmen not of the Puleiar cast by night; and the proceeds of fines have for years been applied to other uses than those which you instituted. - Medical aid is furnished only through a Pulluwen who has not the confidence of these lowcasts, applications for European medicines are rejected, in a few cases given grudgingly. I mention these 2 points because I have been induced, after hearing of them for a long time apparently unconcerned, to do something towards remedying them: I have in a few cases assisted the person fined: the first was when an individual was fined 2 Rs for remonstrating with a Tier about familiar approaches made to his wife. There may have been want of respect: but I was glad to see once a lowcast impatient in his expressions of such dishonour. I have also of late given some medicine to those desirous of it. If I did wrong in both these cases I trust I erred on the right side. I have during these 5 years had several times occasion to prevent parties from executing their design of running away. Not (etc.) With this view I have ventured to meddle with their private concerns in the manner stated and to comfort them again and again with the hope of your return. For I am deeply sensible of the inconvenience attaching the position I thus occupy in the people's minds and pray that it may be changed the sooner the better. So much I think it right to tell you and to leave it to your discretion whatever use you may make of the communication. I do not invite you to enquire into the correctness of what I say - because I fear it might do injury to those I wish to benefit: nor do I entreat you to regard it as altogether a private communication because the Gospel which I serve does everywhere denounce secrecy. I should have been conscious of doing wrong if the uniformly kind behaviour of your brothers towards me had stopped my mouth, when a word from me spoken in its time might under God be a means of stopping the progress of evident evil.
 H Gundert

