 <Montag Calw>* 11 Sept 82
 <nach der Erkrankung am 8.>*
 <(erh. 28. Sept.)>*
Dear Children [Hermann]

By your two last letters we were thankful to see that the Lord has helped hither to and we know and hope that He will help farther. But one thing you must do dear son that is to keep quiet specially in your mind which is more difficult than to keep the body quiet; but you must come to it and that you can get by prayers and by faith, avoied inward excitiment in fixing your thouths on the word of God, on His promises; this does not weary one; but write and speak excites The Lord has instore good things for you and yours and He is making you yet to hear, In excitement, in business one can not hear and hear is such a great thing so needful. the sooner you get quiet in your mind the sooner you shall be cured, and able to injoye that which you now hear and learn to believe and may the Lord give you grace when you once feel better not to jump at once again in work and excitement that which was gained is easily lost. I have made the sad expirience very often. May the Lord revive quicken your soul and spirit through His promises and give you patience. My dear tine and the dear children will also have observed that they want some grace more than they have had. when tribulation is near and one will pray one feels that one has not yet got such child confidence as one should have. then one began also to pray not only for others but also for oneself.

Uranie is still in Cormondresh we are all well thank God and we hope dear Tinele has quite recovered as by Gods grace, her grandmama too. <(Denn Mama Julie war am 8. so krank)>*

With much love to each of you and kisses
 Yours affectly
 J. G.
