 Calw <Sonntg>* 12 </13. Mo.>*th Nov 1882
 <(erh. Dienstg 5. Dec)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

By your last letter we see something of your life on boardship and are glad that, that letter which gave the descrip of it did not reach us at the time before the news of your being better. however I never felt as if it was dangerous, except if you would refuse to hear that which the Lord has to tell you by such dealings with you. You have to do with Him and the more you understand Him and obey you shall get sleep and health, Your case is a piculiar one, Doctors, m‚dicines cannot help, the less you speak of it with men the better. You have to do with the Lord who will be your phisician. Observe His dealings with you, your obedience to His teaching and you shall find that in several cases if not always a want of regard to His teaching a desobidience to His will well known has provoqued a restless night, or God has a peculiar blessing a revelation in store for you for which He prepares you. The words of Jesus in John 14.21. are to be considered by us He reveales or manifests Himself to whom? If He has with us a peculiar way of dealing and we have grace to observe it, to listen, to wait upon Him alone with out looking or talking with men He gradually draws us nearer Himself makes us to understand. and the revelation or manifestation of Himself began and we learn to live from Him taking out of His fulness grace for grace for the health of body and soul and then we know what is that to thank. We are glad to hear that dear Tine is well again and wish her a good winter as to you all.

With much love from Uranie and kisses from me to each of you I remain  Yours affectionate JG.
