<(ad No 447.)>* Calw le 19 Fevrier <Sonntag>* 82
 <(erh. 10. März 82>*
My dear children [Hermann]

Yesterday we recieved your welcome letter with a photographie of your dear Marie for which many thanks She looks strong and well, she is more like her Mama while Julie more like you, both look very different with their former which we have, both with their Mama are very nice, and we are some what proud of them. Julie is the favorite of Frederic. Perhaps when you come you can bring those of dear Emmale and Tinele.

We were grieved to hear that Gustave Hesse does not try to satisfy his Master who is kind and patient with him, poor young man what a sorrow for his parents, we thought him more dilligent than George at least more able to work. I thank you for all that which you have done and try still to do for him, it is hard to have to do with personnes which are untrue and idle; But we rejoice that Rudolf is such a promessing youth, with upright people every good thing can be hoped.

Some days before you intent to come to Europe write please to Frederic who wish much to see you on your way. his wife will have much to say; but avoid much speaking if you can, he suffers a good deal by her pride, hautiness, and want of truth specially with servants who cannot stay with her; but do not show that you know any thing, may God give you words of life and comfort. You will also see George and Luise perhaps if you can. Here is the adress of Frederic
Frederic L Dubois N 145 Hooper St Brooklyn Ed New York

Much love to your dear ones with kisses specially to my dearest Tini  Yours affectly JG

love from Uranie who loves you much and longs to see you

You will find that unkel Frederic is nice, loves the Lord, helps the poor 