 <Montag>* 28 August 82
 <(erh. 14. Sept>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Many thanks for your letters one of dear Julia on the 12 one of dear Herman of the 9th they came together. Dear Son I am satisfied that the Doctor and your people will have you keeping quiet it is the needful means to get well again; probably an other letter on your illness is still coming, therefore we are thankful for the Telegram and we hope that the Lord by this time has given peace to your troubled soul and quieted your spirit. Dear beloved son you and your family will once thank the Lord for this trial. and find that the fruit and the blessing greanted by it are far above the trouble and pains you had to go through. I fancy to hear Mama say yes it was good we now know what is that believe in the Saviour and we learn to go from faith to faith taking out of His fulness grace for grace. His word, His promises become so dear to your soul that you can let every thing else be taken away. He alone the dear Saviour becomes so necessary that we cannot do with out His presence with out His precious peace. In our thoughts we are with you and would like to help you comforting and sustaining your troubled minds; but we know that the Lord can do far more than that we pray and hope for you, in patience we wait for better news.

In learning to believe for health for our needs we learn also to believe that our dear Lord will care for us, our daily bread is a small thing compared to the Eternal life which we have so richely in the Son of God our Saviour, Be careful for nothing dear children, He who loves you cares for you. Dear Son may the Lord tell you: fear not, believe only May He help you to believe and give you joy. Adieu my dear Children

With a kis to each
 Yours J. G.
