 Calw 20 <Sonntag /21.>* August 1882
 (<(erh. 8. Sept)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Till now we have had no news of your arivel to Mount Clemence; but through the Telegram <v. 16. - in Calw 17. früh>* we may think you have had a severe illness perhaps nervous fever the sorte of excitement you were since several months might have brought it on We are very thankfull to have sent us a Telegran and we hope that with Gods grace you continue to feel better My brother wrote that you were not well; and had a great deal of troubel in the custom house and on the journey. for my part I am very sorry to have contributed to your trouble in sending so many things to Frederic, he was himself grieved, Now we long to hear farther how you reached home, your dear Tine and Children will have been alarmed. I felt uneasy during your voyage and could only get quiet in looking to the Lord hoping on His merci. I thank also dear Julia for having written us after papa had arrived in NewYork we felt really very very thankful for your writing. And now on the 21 <(st.) (Montag)>* we recieve yours with the few line from papa, the one of dear Mama one would not send, I can understand her grief and sorows seeing dear Herman so ill. had we been near we might have helped; I half expected our dear son would get a nervous fever the exitement was too much; but amidst my fears I felt as if the Lord had said it is not to death through this trail dear Herman recovers his health and a quiet mind. and besides that many rich blessings for the family all of them learn to pray to look to their Saviour "call on me in the time of need I will help" You did cry to Him He has already helped it is a token for you Mama and Children how good and gracious is our dear Lord, in troubels and traials we learn to know our Lord in being found to cry to Him for help His word His promises become sweet and dear to us. He reveals himself to our souls and we can say Aba father thy will be done. My very dear Tine. I feel for you, for you all: The heavenly phisician will make all well for yet and for the futur; rest and trust Him who does more than we pray and expect. We humble ourselves before Him

Dear Herman will want long time rest one must force him to keep quiet the Lord does not want him to work soon, he must rest till he gets permission from God to do something, keep him quiet as much as possible else the illness may return May God guide you and rejoiece your hearts

With many kises
 yours affectly J. G.
