<(ad 444.)>* Calw 22 </23.>* January 1882
 <erh. 13. Febr>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

You see that I am still here and in pretty good health, perhaps the Lord will permit me to see you once more in this world if I should not I will tell you which is my prayer and wish for my children; first that they be all converted and for you who are the Lords is that you be faithful to confess Jesus letting no occasion pass by without confessing His Name and showing His love, and not be like your mother who has to repent and mourn over much infidellities and disobedience. In the begining I had no difficulty to confess my Saviour; but since years I have no courage and continually reproches, I thank God that He gives repentance and contrition, on account of my want of love and gratitude and fears. I deserve to hear at last the Lord tell me you have been ashamed of me I shall be so of you before my father. We read in the Revelation chp 12 v 11. they have overcome through the blood of the Lamb and through the words of their testimony, so it helps to overcome, we feel it; to witness or speak of Jesus require praying and watching in order that we speak not our own words, if there is a danger in confessing Christ by want of tackt* or mixing our own, the danger of being silent is greater. What an honour that our Lord will have our testimony by poor words which we may say.

There are spirits and devils which cannot leave us; but by prayers and fasting this is still true and who has the eyes opened and will overcome feels that. Overcome what a word and only those who overcome shall inherit the promises, how many bad spirits how many marques of the beast are to be fought against.

Now my dear I am perhaps not intelligibel excuse me. Give my love my kisses to my beloved Tini whom I love truly and your children. With a kiss  Yours affectly
 J. G.
