B. to Strange. I <Brown in Andscherk an Strange>*1

 Anj. 8 March. <42>*

From your very kind disposition to meet Franks wishes for putting your house at Nettoor in his disposition, he authorizes me to purchase it from the Miss. on the best terms I can. May I beg of you to make overture for ascertaining whether they are disposed to part with it. Soon after they took possession of the house I applied, they then said they could not sell it without your sanction. To ensure their consent it seems to me better that the transfer which cannot be refused be made to you, and after a lapse of time be made over to Frank.



II Wednesday2

My dear Sir,

I am sorry that I gave you the trouble of the search for Buckinghams Travels, which it is clear was not among the books I left behind. I wished much to consult the work with reference to the prophecies against Babylon. I will send my servant in a few days to look over my things, and I trust you will give yourself no anxiety about them.

I received the enclosed to-day. You will see that Mr Brown is desirous of purchasing the property I made ov... your society. He asked me in England whether I would consent to the sale, and I told him that I had made over the property absolutely, and had no control whatever over it, and that you were perfectly free to sell it or retain it as you might think most advantageous. It has been suggested to me recently that the Society at Basle could alone to dispose of the place by sale, but of this you will be a better judge than I am. If you consent to part with it, there will be no need for the transfer to go thro' my hands, as Mr Brown suggests; and I should not wish under my circumstances that the transaction should be so conducted.
 Believe me
 Yours sincerely
 T. L. Strange
P.S. I shall be at home to-day till 3 p. m. - and all to-morrow. 


V. <Stranges' Brief s. umstehend, hierauf:>*

 Antw. 11 Merz.1

I return unto you with thanks the enclosed 2 notes of Mr Brown after considering them with my brethren. I am afraid the terms offered will hardly enable us to mention the proposal to our Soc. with anything like an urgent recommendation. Our own outlay for the house has been considerable: because we regarded it not as a temporary residence but as an accommodation for our institutions and natives which we should never be prepared to quit without having something similar to resort too. Even if for 3-4000 R we might get another house and compound suited to our wants (of which I have some doubts) I should greatly regret the time to be spent anew in the necessary arrangements. Of building a house I cannot think without a kind of horror. Perhaps you might ask Mr B if he has any thought of parting with his house and if so, what his estimate of the same amounts to - and this if you think there is any use in putting the question
 Retour

