 Calw 19th October 1863
My dearest Frederic

Here with your box the money for the mehredig which I was very glad to get, they are very nice and cheaper than in Calw, with it a sixer to buy zwetschgen for you the piece of cake you will eat with pleasure I trust, as often as we had I wished you had had a piece with us; but could not easily send it. however I hope you have eaten a goodeal of Zwetschgen. 
How is it that you have sent only one sheet to be washed? you should change your both sheets every wash and even between if they are dirty. last time I have sent you one more than you had formerly purposly that you may keep your bed clean. Is it possible that you have not socks you had a dozen; but perhaps you do not like to put the blue ones nor the grey ones? 
I send you now 8 pairs of cotton and two of woollen so that when it is cold you have to keep your feet worm.

In 8 or 9 weeks we shall have I hope the joy of being together with dear Paul too, by his letter you see that he has heimwhe too; and poor boy has no GrosMama and tante where to find an open ear nor hearts to him; but I trust that he is brought through it to see the Lord the best friend we can have, when we feel Him near He feels up the place of parents and of all that which is dear to us; have you not found it so? Think also of dear Paul and pray much for him that this time may be blessed for all his life. 
Many who have heimwhe do not seek the Lord, but seek among men some what to fill up the woid the feel; but you and your brother are much prayed for and have heard and know what one finds in the Lord and so I trust that this time will be for both of you a time to be praised for for all Eternity that is that now you find a friend in the Lord whom you leave no more; but in the contrary cleave to Him faster every day.

You know and feel I am sure that we are often with you in the Spirit and carry you as it were in our hearts sighing, praying and feeling for you. 
Give my hearty love to dear Mama and Tante to the unkels too and to Mr Hebich if you see him

Now my dearest Frederic I must say Adieu
 Your affectionate Mama

A propos Ask the man who bring you this where he lives and you shall send your things by him when we have wash, he is a careful man and goes also during the winter while the omnibus does not go.
