 Calw 16 Aug 63
My dear wife

Please write Plebst in future. - To Mrs Deimler I wrote of course after your letter of yesterday ("Mrs D can come when she likes. Tante will prepare the little room" etc) and I cannot write an other thing today. But you may tell her when she comes there that one prefers her caring for her food in an other way. For I said nothing about eating, merely about the room. - You seem to suppose that we have her next door, but she lives at Tübingen, where a letter from Stuttg would reach her quicker than from this. 
Yesterday the Maedle of Barth have left their room and gone upstairs, Marie has then taken possession of it. Marie would like much to see the young Fjellstedt, I mean their Mary. But of course it is better not to invite the whole family.

Have you perhaps seen or taken with you a little new book, Life of the Namaqua Martyr, Missionary Threlfall. I seek it in vain and had it before going to Bale on my nighttable. However also Mrs Weitbrecht may have taken it

The Steudels were here 13th afternoon, in the evening we accompanied them part of the way to Teinach. - I saw Schauber who showed me in the Beobachter a very bitter article against Rieger. Friday eveng we had a Committeesitting. The Junglingsverein is also meeting repeatedly, once in Wöhrle's garden, when Paul also joined them on account of Kirn, and was pleased with the company. Friday afternoon Mrs General Reutern and her daughter came for a visit

Now farewell love to all esp Freddy who will be glad to know that with this post Mr Würz is going to Stuttg. Farewell
 Your HG
