+ Nach Hermanns Abschrift.

An Tante Elzie Dubois, New-York.

 Calw, 11. Febr. 1863

My dear sister!1

I have now two of your letters before me, one of 11. Oct and one of 16.th Nov. We are very sorry to hear about George being such a sufferer. I do not regret so much his being kept from study for so long a time, but it is sad in his years to be debarred from the enjoyments of health and youth. It seems to me a great thing to look back upon my young days as a season of joy, apart from the occasional troubles of my schooldays. But I dare say, the sufferings will also be of some use to such as are exercised by them in early life, and in the end no one will be tempted to envy the others lot. Only I trust Lucy is not too anxious to become the learned member of the family by learning what would fall to the task of George, if he had the strength to go through it. I wonder how far she dips into Logic and Astronomy, and all the other studies which go to make an accomplished American. I wonder also whether she is already deep in politicis, of which my girls - I mean Mary and sister Emma, who is just with us are and threaten to remain perfectly innocent, in spite of the excitement, that now and then prevails among gentlemen agitating the German, Prussian and other thickly embroiled questions.

We are now in the new house, that which Dr. Barth occupied, who as you know probably, went to his rest, the 12th Nov. I now and then wish I may soon follow him, but it is all nonsense. We have so short a time on earth that it is well worth taking some trouble with it, in order to enjoy the after rest the more. But in the midst of overwhelming business the heart is apt to misgive one one now and then, and I am not overburdened with the power of initiative and ruling, so that I have continually wished, rather to be guided, than to have a greater charge committed to my hands. Now that it is so, I must make up my mind, to fall gradually into the position assigned, however uncomfortable I feel about it.

Our boys are getting acquainted gradually with America. The youngest takest the gratest interest in the war and hopes, you may soon have the right man in the right place, that is a leader for your splendid armies, that may settle the business in the year commenced. We look over the map and wonder sometimes, how you pronounce the queer names.

In my capacity as editor of Missionary News I have been much interested in the Minnesota affair. I am sometimes tempted, to pity the vanishing Indian tribes nearly more than the black population of your country. Glad I am that I have not to trouble my head about the way, in which things are to be arranged.

Samuel was on the point of being sent to Western Africa, to take the place of one who died after less than a years work. For the present he seems to be overruled and there is still some prospect of his being sent to India, where of course I would wish him to be. It would be something like a repetition or continuation of my own work, which I can never remember without a feeling, that there has been the best part of my life and that the rest is but a poor appendix. However let the children go where they will; if but at last there be a good hope in their death.

Hermann writes now very regularly. I am glad to see, that he gets on also with his very moderate income and does not want any help from men. 
Our Fred. has since you saw him, become a very zealous clothmaker and will now probably enter a mercantile house, to learn how to deal with men. It is a hard trial for his shy nature, for he would prefer to weave on unobserved and never trouble his head about getting on in the world.

Paul studies very hard and makes very steady progress. This summer he may succeed in getting to the college, where I have been from my 14th year. 
Whether David will ever equal him in diligence remains doubtful; in gifts he is fully his equal.

A cousin of ours (Otto Mohl) fights in the Potomac army. He writes in tolerable spirits from the hospital!

Other countrymen known and unknown appear continually in the papers among the lists of deads and missed.

We hear rarely from Corcelles; but the news are good. I hope Julie may visit Switzerland in the course of the year. But she is difficult to move. I dare say when we have celebrated our Silver marriage, which would be the case in July, she may feel herself entitled to a little change. I can give her a very good testimony. She has arranged our new household in very short time, and is nearly as quick as 25 years ago when I popped the momentous question.

With much love from us all to you all yours ..1
