 Calw <Basel>1 29 Jun 63
My dear wife

We arrived all well - Emma and George reaching Pforzh about an hour after us, when we rolled on along with them, dined at Carlsruhe and were 4.37 at Bale with Sam and Mary in our arms. With some difficulty we got all lodged in the Missionhouse, although propriety demanded that Emma should live in another house. However I thought it better that she be under the severe oversight of her strict Duenna, and after all Mrs Braun took them both. Inspector was very kind examined Emma about her health etc and Plebst produced her before the Committee members, in Christ's garden, where we were treated with the hospitality usually shown by Ostertag at Gundeldingen to the guests on Sunday. On Monday special Conference which was a new thing to me, prayer on the knees by several, afterwards everyone uttered what was uppermost in his mind. Herre and Metzger have both gone because the money for their travelling expenses 500 Rs per year was not considered sufficient by them, Mezger even saying that his conscientious convictions are that a Committee has to do nothing else beyond providing the necessary means for carrying on the Mission work I am truly grieved for Metzger! but also Fritz behaved not nicely in the matter. Diez is now at Palghaut Sam may possibly have to go there. Yesterday Monday I did not see Mary today she will however come we are all to dine at the Martin's. Ostertag's physician thinks his case very bad, no prospect of getting better So we have all sorts of things to talk about. Carl Werner has come from Fellbach, also Chevalier and just now Maresch. May the Lord give a real blessing. Sam is some what thin and learns or crams still for the examination. Thanks to Jette for the letters. We are all well With much love
 Your HG
