 Calw 30th August 1863
My dearest Freddy

I am glad to hear that you are better and I trust that you are also more cheerful and that dear Yettle may bring us good accounts of you. If you find so many difficult to join the Junglingverrein I think it will be as good for you to practise your French and English than to force to yourself to go where you find no pleasure perhaps next year you may like it better then you may join it and for this winter I wish you good courage and dilligence to practise the two languages you have bigan to learn here. I shall the evening fancy you in your room reading or learning and now and then saying had I used my time well when I had teachers I would now know much more. but be only of good chear set at work earnestly and it will be easy for you especially if you pray along with studying.

Dear Freddy I feel often uneasy about you since I saw you so cast down and sorrowful. You must try dear son to overcome you have many reasons to thank God try to find out for how many good things you have to praise then you will find that you have much better than many others. tell once to yourself, now I will be happy and joyful and when sadness, cares, darkness comes I will pray and say I must overcome, all this is from the devil I must overcome and try to be joyful. If you really do that for some time you will soon find that you have the victory over the devil.

Neglect not praying often and reading the word of God.

I have seen Mrs. Wirz she is not well less well I fancy than when she left this for the bath; but it is perhaps only the fatigue of the journey. 
I was glad to get again to Calw after so many days of rest with dear Mama and tante who were so kind to us all. It is indeed a great favour to have such a house such loving people always ready to help and love others not thinking of their own comforts. tell please to both of them many hearty thanks from me for their love to me and to you as well as to Paul. 
Papa has gone to Hirshau for the meeting he is better than when at Stutgart. Paul is lieb. David as ever, likes to do his own will. Adieu my dearest Freddy
 Yours J.G.


1Am Samstag über 8 Tage gedenke ich Paul nach Tüb zu nehmen, dort bis zu meiner Rückkehr zu lassen und dann nach Bal weiter zu befördern. Ich hoffe Tante Emma kommt wie geladen auch mit könnte Nachm am Samstag mit mir von Tüb aus fahren (Oehler's Haus am Stift mir das nächste). Dieß ist blos damit Du etwa einzuladen oder Winke zu geben befähigt seist

Herzlich grüßt Alle
 Dein V

Ich habe keine Kreuzermarken für die Inlage, also laß ichs dießmal so passiren.
