 Stutgart Tuesday <18>* <Aug 63>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of yesterday I have not the book you miss nor have I observed it in the room! I indeed thought Mrs Deumler was with you, however all is right now I honly trust she will write before she comes for the room is still prepared for Amalia who was expected yesterday here and has not come she has perhaps come to you from B. if not Mama says it will be better for her to remain here till we go next week and than go together to Calw. Paul came in happy. Mr Shuld who brought his son paid us a visit he took Paul under his protection. Paul is just now gone to see him by Mr. Strow where he lives, they seem to be good friends together with his Frederic, Our Frederic is somewat dark, he is troubled with many boils, perhaps when you come you will give him some remidies to cool him, on Sunday he went to see Mr Wirz, but did not find him. On Sunday I paid a visit to Mrs Rieger who was nice, he was not at home I went afterward to see the Knapps where I found Paul Steutel we drunk caffee together. Herr pfarer and Frau were not at home, the Vicar and sisters kind, send also love to you and Yette Adolph had told me the insolence of the Beobachter against Rieger. Christian Plebst has just come to bring some medecine for the eyes of tante; but she takes the one given her by Mrs Reilen and is some what better. I am glad that endlich Marie has got her own room, She would do well to take from the Wöhrles cloth for a uberzier for you for the winter have it dekatice so that on wednesday the tailor may work it in our house, the week after ward we have wash and the days are becoming short, if you consent to this Marie should also tell the woman from Zafelstein to call the tailor for that day wednesday he will be ready I know. Many thanks to dear Yette for her good long letter I hope to do the things she mention.

I will leave room for Paul who will afterward write how the day has past, the work of the morning was easy he said afternoon would not be so 
With love to all and from us all
 Yours J.G.

If I see again Mrs Fyellstedt I would tell her of Maries wish and perhaps she might let the daughter go with us for a visit alone.

you get herewith Emma's letter



1Lieber Papa!

So, jetzt ist also das Wichtigste, lat. Komposition, Periode, Nachmittags mündl. Uebersetzg. und Fragen im Lat. und Griech. überstanden, und wie ich glaube, ziemlich glücklich überstanden. Das lat. Argument war zieml. schwer, es handelte von Ulrich von Hutten, wogegen die lat. Periode wirkl. bis auf den letzten etwas schwierigen Satz ungeheuer leicht war; sie handelte von den Kampanern, welche, als die Römer ihnen die geforderte Unterstützg. gegen die Samniter verweigerten, denselben alle ihre Habe übergaben. Sie kommt, glaube ich, im Livius, und Du kannst sie, wenn Du willst, wahrscheinl. in meinem Livius finden; sie fängt an mit: Legatis Campanorum, postquam u.s.w. Bei der lat. Exposition mußte ich zuerst einen geschriebenen Satz lesen, dann übersetzen, dann wurden verschiedene Fragen gemacht und gerade so gings im Griech.; die Sätze konnte ich übersetzen und so zieml. auf alle Fragen antworten (richtig sind die Bedingungssätze und Negationen (das elliptische ______) zu meinem Glück vorgekommen Herr Stadtschultheiß ist sehr freundl. gegen mich; er besuchte uns gestern und ich ihn heute im Bibelhaus. Nun muß ich schließen wegen der Kürze des Papiers. Näheres in Bälde mündl. Grüße an Alle im Hause, auch an die Glieder des Jünglingsvereins, namentl. den Kirn, er soll gewiß kommen. Nun Adieu. Laß es auch den begierigen Herr Präceptor wissen.

 Mit vielen Küssen
 Dein Paul.
