 Stutgart 15 August 1863
Dear papa

Thanks for the letter of dear Samuel Tantele has also written very nice, expects to get a letter in Triest so we are all writing Mama would send you her letter; but Mrs Blebst has so hard bitted to send her news that one sends it her from there you shall get it.

Apropos About Mrs. Deimler she should not come till one has heard from Adolph. And Marie must tell her that when Adolph is not here one lives very simple some time no meat, the evening milk to which also Adolph is accustomed, Mama and tante think that it would be better for Mrs. D to get her food from the next inn or hotel which is very near for they do not wish to change their way of living and it is true that for a sick person it would not do when A. is away, and in case Mrs D persist to say that she can live just as Mama and Tante she should when the meals are finished retire in her room when Adolph is there because he likes to talk every sort of things which belong to the family. this Marie can politely tell to Mrs D. On monday or so one will write when she can come.

Our people as well as some other friends wish for the speach you had at the wedding of B. Mr and Lady Baily beg you would visit them, I visited them yesterday with Tante they were kind and amiable. Mrs Reilen hopes also to see you she was very nice with her two daughters there was also Mrs Trump who would like to be visited by you, you know him already Tell dear Yette that I saw also her dear Tante Director Süskind who leave Stutgart on monday evening to go to Buch with Mina Kern where they will stay some weeks so Yette should not come to Stutgart till she return; Mina has it seems the "vexelfiver" and one hopes the change will do her good. Mrs Director feel the heat very much but was well and affectionate. Miss Wiedemann had just returned with mother and sister from a long visit in Salzburg and other places. Poor tante is suffring much from her eyes* can scarsly open them She as well as mama send much love they are very nice happy and quiet. 
I am very sorry to hear dear Yette and Marie had so much trouble about Louise <Maurus>*, it will never do for us to have such a delicat girl one should tell her to seek a place where two guirls are to serve and we will look for an other strong person for us if Marie and Yette would tell her this before I return I would be glad, tante had been asked in Basle by Mrs. Broun to seek two guirls for her. would L. wish that one writes for her? If L was really humbly seeking the truth and thankful for the opportunities she has I would think it my duty to try longer; but I do not feel as if there were hunger and thrist in her. Yesterday Frederic was very tired from running about with packetly in all the town.

I trust Master David has become some what humble to have had his clothes taken before Stattschuldheise. I hope also he feels that there is but one year to get as far as his brother Paul has so that he must set at work in earnest! I feel as if he was really begining to exert himself; is it not dear David you will do so? Kind regards to you all and to all the friends in the house specially to the faithful Martha.

Adieu very dear papa, Marie Yette and sons
 Yours J. Gundert

P.S. I rejoice to hear papa can sleep tolerably and hopes for a very good sleep for him We did not go yesterday to Unterturkheim to see Mr Wart, but will D.V. go to day. Dr Steudel with Bertha had spoken to go to Calw in a fortnight. they were very kind to us. I saw Mrs Bühler who is as ever, she comes perhaps next week for an afternoon.
