 Calw 13th January 1863
 <erh Detroit 10 Feb. 63>*
Dearest Hermann

At last a letter from you, the time appears so long to us betwen a letter that we wait with impatience when it delays one or two days beyond a month. Thanks dear Herman for the last which has rejoiced us much.

I am glad you like still so much your first congregations and keep corespondance with them, however I am still more pleased that you have some english friends near and specially cheer up the hope that for such place you may get easier a help meet to come to you. We have missed you greatly during the last feast days that Samuel was here, I felt very sad that you were not with us and heimweh seems to increase with me untill you have a companion. I can scarsly help sighing often after you. It is to me a real grief that my brothers with there families are so cool and indifferent almost like strangers with you. Ah poor people their God is still money and honnor in this world, the case is more grievous for Frederic who knows the Lord and should have made progress in spiritual life. But it is true that if the Lord had not had mercy on me I would be just like them if not worse. It is a terrible curse to be so attached to the Mammon of this world. 
News of Calw and us all Marie gives you I dare say. I was glad to hear what Isenberg writes you and may God greant him the petition of his heart first a true conversion, fitness for His work and his rib!

Next week will be the auction in Barth house, the Zeller from Nagold are expected to day for it

As it is now settled we stay in Calw I shall have many things to buy. I live in the hope that one day you shall visit us there. I must now go to church so I will say Adieu my dearest Herman
 Yours J.G
