 Calw 20th Sept 1863
My dearest Frederic

Your last letter David has just read me, I am glad to hear you are so well and happy. In the Lord Jesus we can be happy He is our peace He has made it for us with God the father so that we have nothning to fear; but accept that precious peace which the Lord has purchased for us through His blood, This morning I have red the first Chp of the second Epistle of Peter it has done me good read it and think specially on the second verse till the 12. all that we get throug the knowlege of God. how much do we want to read the word of God in order to know Him We are to grow in His knowlege through it we have eternal life and this precious knowlege we get by reading the word of God and through the holy Spirit which God gives us when we have hunger and thirst. Dearest Frederic I trust you pray diligently! without prayer we cannot expect to get any thing, Consider how many exhortations are there to induce us to pray; pray without ceasing, be watchful unto prayer, because we are leasy, slow to pray and because the devil puts many hinderences to our spirit of prayer the Lord has repeated so often watch to prayer be fervent in prayer, be intent in prayer, to Peter who was to be tempted the Lord gave as the only useful remedy the same words or advise watch and pray that ye fall not into temptation, If we were aware how many temptations surround us we would pray and watch much more and think of the Lord's prayer who says lead us not into temptations but deliver us from evil. I often feel the want to repeat to the the Lord this sentance of his own taught petitions for meself and mine. We have much to thank and praise the Lord for keeping us, were we not kept we would fall in to many sins in which many others are falling, had they perhaps some one to pray for them or could they indeed pray in truth the Lords prayer they would be kept. 
Dear Frederic Mama has an account for us tell her to give it to papa. that we may pay it and tell also Tante when she return from Bali to send us the account for the boots which papa has ordered. If Yettle or Paul should return with the omnibus you should take or send to the Om your box of dirty cloth but if they go per post keep your box till in a fortnight or three weeks. Give my special love to dear Mama and tante and my hearty thanks for their love and kindness to Paul who is there again, I am really ashamed that our people are continually there, I hope to write soon miself to them I trust they are comforted by the good news they have of their dear daughter.

Now my dearest F I must say Adieu. tell me again how you like Hebich and how you find your friend Seifried. David sends you love, he is some what more earnest in learning I think, he has great friendship with Shuldt being the only one of the first class.

 Adieu Your Mama J.G

the old Mrs. Wagner is very ill
