 <18 December 1863>*
My dearest Frederic

Here with your box the one of Paul if it gives you too much trouble we shall see for an other time how to send it. Count how many clean Schrits and stockings you have and tell it me when you come that I may know whether you have enough till March for we do not intend to wash befor the month of March. Next week I intend to send you a Goose. Gans for Grand Mama and Tante you schall be so kind to take it to them when you get it at least the same day; but say nothing about it.

I long very much to see you both, we shall have many things to speak together. I rejoice you have a friend in Mr Renard I know his sister who is teacher in Korndhal I saw her in Vevey.

Dear Frederic I am sorry to have no room in your box to send you some what to eat; but you will soon be with us D.V. May God give us real blessings and be with us when we meet, it will be the first time we see each other Since God has began His work in your heart, and the dear Paul I wonder how it will be, perhaps he will feel more confidence towards you than with us, you must then try all you can to know his feelings and how he stands really with the Lord.

Still a few days and we shall be able to speak to each other So for the present I will say no more Adieu dearest Frederic.

love to our dear people.

Send Paul's box as soon as you can that he may still get it before Wednesday if possible.

 Your affectionate Mother
 J. Gundert
18th December
Papa sais you may take for you one of the books which are in the box 