 <ca. 12.-15 August 1863.>*
1Mein lieber Samuel.

Da Dein liebes Mutterle Dir schreiben will aber nicht viel weil sie etwas Schmerzen in den Händen hat so darf ich den Brief mit ein paar Grüßen von mir anfangen, Dein Brief den Du Deinem lieben Vater sendest ist auch zu uns gelangt, es ist recht lieb von Euch daß ihr uns so treu Bericht abstattet wir sind immer in Gedanken bei Euch Lieben und ich bitte den lieben Vater im Himmel fleißig führe meine Lieben an Deiner treuen Vaterhand Du und meine liebe Emma dürft Euch wohl für Geschwister ansehen und ausgeben dann ist allem Gerede ein Ende gemacht. Herr Pretorius war sehr gütig daß Er Euch noch so was kräftiges brachte unser lieber Vater im Himmel thut Seinen Kindern täglich viel Gutes so sie Ihm vertrauen! Der Herr segne und behüte Dich. In treuer Liebe küßt Dich Dein Mutterle
 Emilie Gundert.


2My very dear Samuel

Your letter to papa has given me joy I also thank God that you have to go to Cannanore although I believe it will be difficult for you in many respects on account of the many bretheren there; but God who calls you will help and teach you how to walk and speak so that you give no offence neither to the heathen nor to the church of God. Slow to speak ready to hear with a spirit of dicernement enable us to bear much and deal with wisdom. to be able to keep our judgment or rather to form none till we are certain we see things with Gods light keeps us in peace with God and among each other. May God give you grace and wisdom waiting in silence what God will have you to say to do and when you are convinced of the will of the Lord being such deal than courageusly your heart fixed on Him whose will you are to execute in the midst perhaps of much difficulties and trouble, If it is sweet to live with brethren there are also many hard lessons; therefore Slow to speak slow to pronounce a judjement May the Lord keep you in perfect peace.

I regrette, not to have sent an album for photograph to Miss Will as you are to be near her. I shall D.V. do it next opportunity Give her my special love and may God give her joy and peace waiting for his comming. 
I will dearest son tell you Adieu and add a few lines to dear Emma  Your affectionate Mama J.G.


My beloved Tantele

Your last from Basle has rejoiced us much seing how gracious has been our Lord iether too and it is but a begining of His goodness He has in store much more for you expect only much from Him and you shall get much. His treasures are full; but we must faithfully drow and pompe from the fountain always open to us. Sweet dear sister you know the secret how all things are possible to God and to him that believeth. Yea believe. Oh for more of that precious faith which overcommeth. Be of good chear be courageous The Lord is your fore and arriere Guard. Many pray for you and I am sure you will now and than feel as I did in the midst of the work when harrassed and fatigued scarslely able to pray a power a new life was communicated, then I felt clearly others have helped me You would rejoice to see dear Mama and tante how comforted and quiet, how they speak to every one of the grace of God, it is to me a real wonder, May God keep them continually as he has done till now. Love to dear Georg to Perci Adieu my very beloved tantele  Yours Julie Gundert.
