 Calw 10th June 1863
My dearest Marie

Accept my thanks for your last note full of affection and tender feelings, the time runs very fast and soon papa will leave us to join you and come again with you both I trust. I am very glad you injoye your visit so much and thank all the friends who are kind to you, I am very sorry to hear dear Dr Ostertag is so poorly, in which bath is he going?

Gustele has got a nice place with a Mrs. Mayer at Berg, tantele wrote about her and she is to go imidiatly, Louise was to come to day; but has not arrived with the post as I excepted but I trust to morrow; poor Gustele got so ill this morning that she could not mouve I really feared she was to get a illness however this evening she is some what better and she has gone to her sister Dirlam where she remains till mondag and then will go to Berg. The two Verreins of Ladies and children were as usual Mrs Zahn Emelie Seg. sister came too. The bilding is going on; but it will not be finished for the marriage. to day it rains much and as a part of the roof has been pulled down our Cook room and Speisekammer were rather wett from the above rooms. Papa does not look well it was I think too much for him to walk to Kanbach Herman Gross has the Gastrishefever he walked sunday from Calw to his house and had to go to bed. Frederic is sad to have no prospect of a place for next month when his time will be over and he will not remain with the Wirzes because he cannot weave and does not like wolle sortiren or noppen. we have had the tailor already 10 days and he must still come next week.

Now that shall I say more except that I wish you many blessings. I am glad you make your dress in Bale. love to dear Samul and to all the dear friends. Specially to the dear Ostertag and to their young ladies  Yours J. G.
1Sind die Mather von Benares? Jos. Knapps Gedichte lassen sich schon brauchen, doch tr채gts die Form 체ber den Inhalt davon; die Gedanken sind nicht reich und es fehlt die eigentlich poetische Naivit채t. Man wird mehr an Kunstproducte gemahnt. Gustele gieng am Mittw. mit Anfang von gastrischem Fieber. Am Freitag kam Louise Maurus. Daneben ist auch Evameile hier besch채ftigt.
