 Stutgart 12th August 1863
 <Detroit durch Warth 18 Sept. 1863>*
My dear Herman and Christina

As there is just an opportunity to send you this I write a few lines sitting with tante round the table in the room where you have been often. Why I am here you will see no doubt by the letters of papa and Marie who have returned from the wedding to Calw. Sunday was really a fine day we felt the presence of the Lord in our midst. the quietness and peace of Emma was really felt by every one. Papa who cupled them had a beautiful text the 23 Ps On the 10th evening we all went to the garden Samuel was much moved, wept much, saying I have received and injoyed so much love and rendered so venig; he was very nice. I believe also that his stay with us at Calw for a few days has been blessed for the two brother. I am specially glad for Paul who was becoming rather proud and vain, also for David who gives me pretty much of anxiety, for he does not like to learn and speaks still of becoming a Sailor. You would wonder to see dear Mama and tante how composed and quiet they are about Emma. this evening already came a letter from her from Basle where they arrived safe and happy. Is it not a great favour that Samuel can make the journey with them it is for us all a great comfort if Plebst should be sea sick at least Emma would have Samuel near. they have better than you had and better than I had, but never mind if after all the Lord attains his plans with us and through troubles and difficulties brings us to full submission and faith.

Dearest H you last has again pleased us well and the fotograph of your dear Christina has given me much joy the Lord has guided you in your choice her look please us exceedingly and we have no doubt that she will make you happy; it was indeed far better for your condition to take a wife in America than a fine learned lady of Europe All of us and all those who see the portrait of your dear Christine are pleased and rejoiced for you. So you can also say the Lord has done all well for me. And He will I have no doubt bless you farther. I would have liked to send you forcks and knives; but papa says they would be too heavy I told marie to send you from Calw, 6 Caffee spoons and a golden broch of mine which I wish my dear daughter Christina to bear often. I would have liked to send you many things; but papa says it is better you take money from Francois and buy what you may want. And I hope you will do this. I stay here still 10 or 12 days partly on account of dear Paul who comes on Monday for the landexamen and having been some what unwell lately I want a little rest; for we have a learge house hold in Calw usually 13 at table. We like Yette very much and I think she will be able to help papa if Marie had to leave us, till now we know nothing about I. but I believe God will do also all well for dear Marie who has improved very much and I doubt not that God has a work in her heart. she makes herself useful in all she can.

Of late papa has been very poorly he had fever and could not sleep for several nights. I feared he would be able to come to the wedding, however he seems now to be better. the heat which is very great this year trys him rather much. it is almost as hot as in India.

I trust Paul will succeed in the landexamen he has much anxiety; however uncle Earnst says he doubt not that he will succeed, it is true he has given himself much trouble being very diligent; but the matter is of the Lord and we wait upon him Oh we are happy to have such a father who cares for us in all things. Yea when we are in troubles He is also with us and helps us through. I send a tender kiss to both of you and hopes still to see you both once in our midst
 Your affectionate Mama

tell us dear Herman what sickness you had, that dear Christine speak of it made her to look some what sad on the portrait and you look very poorly let your dear wife tell us all I pray you
