 Stutgart thursday <20 Aug 63>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of yesterday and for the iclosure the one of Hermann has pleased us all, Tante has kept the photograph for her own. Had I known Mrs. W and Natalia would go so soon to you we would have sent the last letter by them

Yesterday went again well with Paul at least he thinks so, on the evening he complained to have headach, and he had fever this morning he has still headach though he slept well I trust it is but a cold, as he slept with windows and doors opened the two first nights he was here. Mama had a long letter of Emma from Milan it will be sent to you from Lauffen. You had likly also from Dear Samul. Our people ask again after the speach you had at the Marriage! perhaps you will be so kind as to bring it; but I already said that perhaps it is so written that you alone can read it. With tante I paid a visit to Mrs Bounds he came too and was very nice, they expect Hebich half one of these days, saw also Mrs. Kern who afterward came to the verrein and drunk Caffee with us, met also in her house Paul Steutel who will visit us with his wife at Calw, he looks well.

If it was not raining tante would have taken me to Fellbach; it is really cold here 14 degrees less than on Sunday one had then 28 and yesterday by Mr. Breining only 14 Marie has sent me money to pay Mrs Bühler; but I do not go again to Eslingen I shall give it to Mrs Muller who shall settle the business for us Mama and Tante are wonderfully supported and quiet. Have Marie or Yettle spoken with Louise does she wish that Tante writes for her to Mrs Broun? Conraht W. paid a visit yesterday to Paul they were so happy together with Freddy that1 they would have gladly remained together late at night; but we were all so tired that one sent them off after nine. Mama has just recieved yours with the one from Mrs. Deimler by my letter of Tuesday you will have seen that she may come. The things she has in Calw are not to be sent here till I have come there because Natalie occupies the room where they are to be put. In that letter I also told you that I had not seen the "Threefall" you mentioned before. I trust you have found it by this time! I will now leave room for Paul who shall report about his last examination which he feared on account of his headach. thank God it is now over, with good hopes he will be accepted.

Love to all and from all
 Yours Julie Gundert.

P.S. I keep Herman's letter here it might be too heavy having one for Natal. except Herr Wöhrle should go this evening and take it

Dear Yettle you will wonder what liberty I take with your things in sending to Calw two of your baskets, roaps, clemerle, these things will be more useful to us than all the others You pardon is it not yours affectionatly J.G. Mama asks if you wish your bonnet box?


1Lieber Papa!

Gottlob, ist einmal das schwere, langgefürchtete Examen vorbei. Von vorgestern habe ich Dir schon geschrieben. Gestern hatten wir das griech. zieml. leichte, kleine Argument und die Religionsfragen 1.) Leben und Charactr. des Apost. Petrus. 2.) Erklärg des Spruchs "Die Starken bedürfen des Arzts nicht, sondern d. Krank. Ich bin u.s.w. 3.) Das 4. Gebt. und Erkläg nach dem Katechismus. Nachmittgs hatte die 2. Abthlg. mündl. Heute morgen hatten wir den deutschen Aufsatz, das Thema ist so lang, Du kannst es ja am Samstag hier sehen und 4 Rechnungen. An meinem Aufsatz, wie ichs immer gesagt habe, nicht viel rares. Die Rechnungen habe ich verstanden, ob recht od. nicht, das weiß ich nicht. Indessen grüßt und küßt Dich
 Dein Paul.
Viele Grüße an Alle.
