 Calw 24th November 63
My dear Children Hermann and Christine

It is already long since I wrote you but you know why I do not do it oftner You get from others so many news that I think it useless to write myself. I was grieved by your last to see that you are again in trouble with the Congregation and that your present place is so difficult, Could you not get a living merely by teaching? As you have a good wife who can spare and make you happy it might be much easier for you to have only lessons to give than to have continual trouble with a congregation and be intangled with so many people who are too cunning for you. even regarding the resposibility you might feel much happier having no charge of souls! You would also I dare say get your pay in silver and not with a dog. You will have thanked God in hearing that Frederic seeks the Lord and has I hope found his Saviour. May we soon hear that Paul has found Him too. He writes very seldome and says little of that which passes in him. however both will soon come to spend some days then we may hear all about them.

Gustave who has just been with us said that Frederic is happier and more joyful than formerly. David is as ever negligent about his lessons, fond of reading, of gathering marks Stamps and playing; but learning is to him a burden beside he is so proud so disobidient that I can but grieve about him and look to the Lord for help. If he could not make <pass> the land examen it would be no sorrow to him, he is still wishing to become a seaman. So you see dear Herman that we have causes to sigh and pray for this last one. Marie helps her father faithfully and so does Yetle whom we like to have with us. All the news about Samuel you get I am sure. Emma is it seems happy in Mangalore, I have no doubt that she will find plenty work at school and with the Women and the Lord will make her a blessing Dear Strobel who has just lost his wife in Franckfort where he had come from India on her account; will be able to return to India after some time which will be a great gain for he is a real man of God and did much, I would be glad for Samuel if he could work near Strobel.

Papa and Marie are to day in Stamheim for the Conference at the Mesners, The old Mama Handel 90 years old has gone to her rest almost in a sleep with out sickness, kept her good memory till the end.

Could there be a Christmas in which we could see you both as we now expect to see Frederic and Paul and it gives us joy what would be that to see you both? but who knows it may still be once. I send to both of you a tender kiss
 Your Mama Julie Gundert
