 <Anfang Juni 63.>*
Dear Marie

You see that it is again but a very small note that I begin, but you bear patiently as well far as near nicht wahr? I am often with you in my thoughts and rejoiece to hear that every where you meet with so much love; give my love and thanks to the dear Ostertags for their kindness to you. 
Apropos you tell us nothing of that story of an Angel having appeard to a woman in Bƒsle, forget not.

Our house is again full, Karl came Saturday <30 Mai>* and Heinrich Sunday <31 Mai>* with David who had gone to Zafelstein on Friday with the intention to make a visit for the day only, <but he stretched it over 2 days and 2 nights without writing>1, Heinrich has as Ettle had a swollen cheek and can scarsly sewlo any thing. Gustele went to Stutgard and found that Mrs Pretorious had already ingaged some body. Mrs Schwarz will try to get her a place. Martha W. is absent for 8 days paying visits about

Since some days Paul is rather cross he had already for some weeks a querrel with Heinrich Papa wanted him <1. Juni>* to humble himself, but this was too much for him he went rather without dinnar yesterday, however at evening he was forced to open his mouth to Heinrich.

Yesterday morning Mrs Pelargus sent for me thinking her little one dying; but I do not think her so very near death. during the night she asked to have read to her the hymn "there remaineth a rest for the people of God" 
Yettle and I are going to pay a visit to Mrs Schauber et to her daughter Mrs Schütz. The Segers got up very early to day and many carriages are about it is I think the wedding of their cousin Miss Zilling 
My special love to dear Samuel I hope the Comite will soon settle that which concerns him that he may have some rest and we too Frederic is very much out of humor and asks daily have you no place for me. he will not stay with the Wirzes After ward because he cannot weave he would rather become a soldier. May God soon open a door for him. Now I must say Adieu dearest Marie with love to those who remember me.

 Your Mama
 J. Gundert
