 Calw 24 Novbr 1863
My very dear Frederic

Your last letter has again rejoiced me. Our dear Lord continues His work in you it suffice me, this alone can give me joy, though it should even go hard and as it were through death, yes we must die to self there is no help without death there is no life. We are by nature so proud we must be humbled, and thanks to our dear Lord who does not care for our crying to be rather left alone and quiet No His work must go on. Oh let us rejoice giving thanks and praises to our blessed dear Lord who does not get tired of us. I do long my dearest Fredy to see you here to hear all, Gustave who was here said that you look much more joyful than formerly, Oh dear Child how great is that, to be a Child of God to come to Him as to a father yea we are happy. I believe that the Lord is also working in Louise I have often nice conversation with her, she is very thankful the Lord has brought her to us, she bag pardon that in the begining she was so ungreatful and naughty. I hope our dear Lord will carry on His Work. Just now I see an unsewer to our prayers which we had in our prayer meetings at the Mullers in the first days of the year when we came daily together for prayer as many Christians do the first weeks of January. My chief prayer was that God would open doors and convert souls and behold He begins in our house! how wonderful My second prayer was that God would make and keep his Children humble He will also do this for us, is it not you wish to be a humble true Christian? as our dear Samuel and our dear Paul speaks also of his unworthiness Oh if ones our eyes opend to see ourselves the work must go on, this being done in my Children I am comforted the Lord will perfect that which He has began. I do not like to charge Mr Muller with many things I give him only a few pairs of stockings, in a small box which I pray you to return to dear Mama, I send also a Cap of Samuel When you come at Christmas you schall choose a propre one by Deuschle. Adieu my very dear Son  Yours J. Gundert

Mr Muller does not like to take the box so you get 4 pairs socks and the cap I shall send back your box as soon as our wash is finished that is in 3 weeks I hope
