 <ca. 20 Juni 63>*
My dearest tantele

As tante is just writing I will add here a few lines to tell you how happy and thankful I feel towards the Lord who has shown His will regarding your future I doubt not it is from the Lord you have been made for each other and God has given you that which may be wanting in our dear brother P. I have no doubt; but that the Lord will make you both a blessing for many souls, remain only small to your own eyes than the Lord will glorifie Himself in you and use for His kingdom the gifts He has given you. You will be happy with P. your share of little troubles you will have as every one; but with the Lord we can do all things. to Him all is possible and to him that believeth also.

I rejoice that the Lord takes you in a special manner in his Vinyard among the heathen. And the dear Mama that God has given her so much strength and submission to His will is a peculiar grace. she will also be rewarded and when sad moments <come>* He the comforter will be with her and sustain her as well as our dear Tante whom we are so glad to have in our midst. 
Now my beloved with a tender kiss to you to dear Mama, love to dear Adolph and hearty thanks for the trouble he has taken for our Frederic. Wishing you grace to remain quiet and happy in the Lord

 I remain Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert.

P. S.
Will you be so kind in your next letter to tell me what Frederic is to take with him bedstead, Almira, etc. I thank the Lord that He has provided so nice a place for our dear boy and so near us and dear Mama and Uncles. My heart is full of joy and thankfulness to the Lord: may I also learn to believe more and expect much waiting upon Him whose promises are true. Adieu 
