 Calw 19th October 1863
 <erhalten 16 Nov>*
My dear Hermann and Christine

Your last letter has given us joy and I thank you for it; but that I do not forget I will mention it now, When you have things to write which concern you and your wife which the children should not hear please write them on a bit of paper separately and let your letters free so that one can show them to all, last time David and Paul got very Angry that one did not allow them to read them!

On the 10th of this month we went papa and I with Paul to Maulbronn, I was pleased to see that old Closter Convent it is very interesting; but especially pleasant that Paul can be where his father was; and although he has now heimwhe he will soon feel happy I hope. The Lord be praised that He has helped through this year so wonderfully, for Frederic for whom we were anxious to get a place, then for Samuel after many cares where he may be sent to, at last for Paul, so many ansewers to prayers give us confidence and courage for the future. David gives us still anxieties; for he persists to say that he will be a sailor and shows little mind to learn in order to make the landexamen next year. What a pitty a child so talented! one must daily over and over tell him to learn and some time he gets so displeased and proud that I feel often much grieved. We have Carl Weigly who is unhappily no stir for him to learn for he is himself very idle and seeks his ease and to be confortable, stretching himself on the sofa or on the floor! Heinrich Gros is not so idle learns pretty steadily; but is easily carried away by the jokes and plays of Carl W. and they can roll each other on the floor for hours if permitted.

We are glad to hear you find it easy to live with your income, it is good you have lessons to give it helps you. You will require more afterward when your wife will want some one to help her at her confinement but God who has done well hither to for you will care farther. May you both live to Him and for Him. Have you less trouble with the people of the Congregation? I hope there are some fine souls among them, who give you joy and from whom you really get blessings and comforts? How is the father of Christine do you see each other often has he not been softened by the death of that woman <Marg Eisenb.>*? Your papa has a great deal to do Marie and Yettle find enough to occupy themselves too I am glad Yette is with us she is really a noble soul

Our two verreins one for children and one for some ladies continue as usual rather few people specially ladies though papa takes the trouble every time. That is every tuesday to speak in it and give us news of the mission people really do not know to appreciate the good things they have. but we are also so in many things.

Now I must say Adieu with a tender kiss to you both
 Your Mama Julie Gundert
