 Monday <ca. 29>1 <Ende Juni 63>*
Dear papa

As Mr Weitbrecht tells us of an opportuniti to send you etwas I will send Salams to you and to all the dear Friends of our family. Frederic left us this morning quite cool and indifferent; I had a good talk with him yesterday and he was pretty nice. The Wirzes felt the parting very much she wept and said she was very sorry to have been some what cross with him, he repeated that he wishes to have again F when his time is over in Stut, he has found no one in whom he has so much confidence. The poor Evameile has been found out a leier Yesterday After having discovered her leies about the beer I found that she had drunk wine from some bottles which had been put in the Keller, she would not confess it at first; but at last it came out and instead of going to her house for the night she went to Stamheim from where her sister fetched her at noon, The father fagged her for having told all sorts of stories on them in Stamheim and brought her back to us. I than told him what she had done in our house he was greatly grieved, but poor girl seems to be hardned in the way of telling leis she niether fells nor knows that she leis so much she is accustomed to it. She has told that at Stamheim one would be glad to have her to help in the Anstalt, so I am going at once to hear from them how it stands with her.

I told the father that she had made it impossible for us ever to recomend her to any one though she would learn anough to be able to serve in a common house, and that to go in a fabrique would perhaps after all be the best, however I would wait I said till you come back to decide about her. 
I must say Adieu one wants the letter and I go to St. with Adolph M. who plays with our boys like a child, he likes David most of all. Poor Gotlob B came quite distressed about our boys who make a terrible noise, he told them already to be quiet but in vain,

Let us know how many of the dear people come back with you tante the bride and bridgroom?

love from dear Ette
 Yours J. Gundert
