 Stutgart 14th August <63>*
Dear papa and Marie and dear Etty too

Many thanks for your kind letters which have given me joy. pardon that I have not unsewred sooner. Yesterday I dined with Mrs Fry where Mrs. Fielstat was too, she would have liked an invitation von Calw; but I made none; for she has son and daughter with her.

I am glad to hear my David is the first at school. I send him and P. best love I wait for the last with impatience. Apropos my things I want would be soon enough by him on Monday. About Mrs. Deimler Mama and tante will take her the only difficulty is Adolph who likes to be alone at meals, however one hopes he will consent. Gustave has already given his assend. Adolph comes back suterday; but Mrs D. can come when she likes tante will prepare the little room where I slept with papa for her more than that little room she cannot spare.

Natalia comes back from Baligen on Monday and comes likely to you on Tuesday, with the Omnibus. Mama had a few lines from Emma written after her arrival in Basle they were all well. Mama and tante are also well and very quiet trusting in God for their children. I have till now paid no visit our people had too much to do. Yesterday evening we went to Canstat where we had a bath we go again to day and will try on the way to see the brother who is to go to America and perhaps Gustele too

Frederic comes every evening faithfully and longs to see his Paul. 
Mrs Blebst with her Christian left this on Wednesday at 6 ocklock they went with a trotche to the railway; but arrived too late so they returned and left us for good at 11 He made himself as agreable as he could to Mama and tante; but I felt more and more how unpleasant he is and I pitty his poor mother, he is a terrible talker and schwätzer.

Dear Papa no one speaks of your health? may I hope it is well? I shall bring to Marie Natalia's fotograph. I rejoice to hear the dear boys are brave and lieb and that dear Yette and Marie have such a perfet househaltung, they make good things and spare plenty I thank them both heartily. 
I trust to day to pay a visit to Mrs. Reilen where Mrs Fielstat is to spend the day. her only son is ill therefore she came to Germany her Maria would of course like to see ours; but how to make! Now with love from all here to you all to the house genosen down and up I remain
 Yours
 Julie Gundert
