 Calw 2d March 1863
My dearest tantele

I was going to write to dear Mama; but German will not come, so I must in English tell good morning to you all very dear people. I hope you came home safe and found all ours in good health and spirit, better than you found and left us here I mean two certain ladies who are* soon cast down and low spirited sighing so deeply that it may be felt and heard darkning the atmosphere round them almost, but I hope to behave better when you come again with dear Mama! Now my dear since you left I visited a person to whom I had lent tracts, to my surprise and joy she told me that one of the tracts had made her to tremble and search herself deeply before the Lord. she thought I had made it for her. the tract is "Der unterschied zwischen waren und falschen bekehrungen von Fredr. Krummaker." I pray you my dear as you have promised to visit Dr Marriott to ask him to send me if possible a good quantity of these very tract and also some of Das Kreuz I am more in want of these than of the little books I told you of And Kindly let me know what they cost The first mentioned one I keep always in my poket it is just what I want to tell to the people. <Dann auch den Tractat: Nicht einmal im Himmel selig.>1

We are here just as when you left. The Buserle are expected to day. papa and Marie were at Altburg yesterday and after that we visited the Wagners Mrs W. hopes Mama will visit her. How is dear Tante? has she given you reason to hope we shall have the joy to have her in our fine house in Calw? I trust she will not denie us this expected pleasure, and dear Jette what does she say of our plans about her coming in April? prepare her a little about the behaviour of our boys that she may not be too much surprised or disappointed.

My beloved tantele give my sincere love and kisses to dear Mama tante jette, love to the uncles to Mr Plebst etc

 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert


1Ich will nur herzlich grüßen. Am Freitag Abd traf ich Pf Werner bei Widmann, Am Mittag darauf fuhr er heim. Gestern predigte ich in Altburg wo eine Monatsstunde nachher viele Brüder zusammenführte. Am Samstag hatte ich Frau Pf Handel besucht und zum 90sten Geburtstag "kratelirt." Auguste Denner war auch dort. Marie und die andern grüßen herzlich Dich sowie Mama und Tante, dasselbe thut
 Dein Bruder

