 Calw 12th Sept 1863
My dearest Frederic

Good morning my thoughts are much with you today and I would like to know how you are I trust happy and joyful in the Lord, Herman Gros will have paid you a visit and brought you a letter from Korndörfer, pour Gros is still ungreatful to the Lord who did so much for him, may you be kept from all evil and not carried away by companions who might hurt your soul, as soon you see or feel that to be with such or such friends does not help you on to seek the Lord and know him, leave rather such friends and keep to your bibel and good books. with nice walks which you do every sunday I hope, visit also Mrs Muller who lives so near you. she is a dear soul and will recieve you kindly I think, give her my love. In Calw we have many sick people of dysentery or "brechruhr" Mr Kapler is still very ill and iven dangerously so, Mrs Baetzner has also had it; but is now better, many others whom I do not know, some are dying from it. You know that dear papa is today in Ba and Paul in Tübigen from where he will go to B. and then to Stutgart for a short time. I would be very glad if you had leave on the 27th and were to spend the day with us, perhaps Paul might come back with you then from Stutgart.

Dear Frederic I send you 2 sheets more than you had hither to that you may change your bed when you see that your scheets are dirty. You should also change you night shirts more often every week or every 9 days. I send you a piece of common Cake and 12 cr to buy fruit with.

Tell me in your next letter how you are, are all your boils gone, have you no stomach ack? do you feel the cold? here we feel it much and worm already the owen the mornings. our dear papa is not very well; but does his work as usual. We expect news from Hermann daily already for 8 days he should have written. You will have read the good news we had from Samuel. David learns it seems with some what more diligence than formerly, if he could only become a little humble and obedient; but his pride as well as the one in Paul grieve me very much. Carl is as ever idle; but a good natured boy full of fun Heinrich is "lieb" and learns pretty well, himself, David and Frederic Schuldt are to be the first class at school; Now my very dear Frederic I will say Adieu in the hope that perhaps you will surprise us one morning early. I wish you many blessings to day through the reading of God's word and through the preaching of it. May you never feel alone but have always communion with your dear Lord who loves you much and stays always by you if you seek Him. Love from us all with a kiss
 from Your Mama J. Gundert

Much love to dear Mama and tante and still once more my hearty thanks for their kindness and love to me while I was there and also for their love to all our children. Try dear son to be very kind and nice with them, they owe us nothing and still they do so much for us all, Ask tante how are her eyes 
Many thanks for your last letter recieved today, this one was written yesterday, so you see dearest we thought much of each other. I am glad you are acquinted with Seyfried I think he is a nice young man I like also his mother very much
