 Calw 16th </17>* July 63
My dearest Frederic

Your two last letters have given me joy and also what papa and Samuel said, in your "heimwhe" God seekes you and you have grace to seek Him. He lets Himself soon be found the dear Lord who waits daily continually for us is soon found by those who are true and earnest. Above all dearest son read Gods word and good books; if you do that with prayers, you will soon be happy and find that you have in God a tender father and in the Lord Jesus a Saviour a friend a brother, and that to have communion with Him is better than father, mother and all the best friends. I hope you find already joy in praying and if some times there comes dark moments and doubts pray the more and think of the words which say resist the devil and he will flee from you. You would also do well to read again your pilgrims progress it has already helped many young souls who like Bunyan have left the city of destruction to go to the heavenly city, the devil, the world, our wicked hearts cause us some time fearful fights; but we must be of good chear have good courage our dear Lord has overcome and with Him by His grace we shall also over come. But fight we must like good soldiers and our best weapons are prayer and gods word, dearest Frederic, to pray morning and evening is not enough we have to do with many enemies and we want much grace and strength. I have confidence that the Lord has already taken you in His school and teaches you; May you be so convinced of the love of the Lord to you that you may be full of joy. And whenever doubts come in your mind whether you are indeed loved by the Lord look at it as a temptation of the devil and try to believe more and more and say yes my Lord and Saviour -oves me.

Your last has just come with the fotograph you look in it pretty dark, I trust you do not allow yourself to be so cast down and dark, it makes the people round you sorry and anxious it may appear as if it was against them therefore avoid as much as possible to have the black dog.

I send you dearest son some heidle beer with some cake of the same and some of the goodly of the Wedding which has just taken place. Your brothers had imagined that they would be invited to it and on account of their disapointment they refuse to eat the good things which have been given for them so you get their portion at least some of it

Dearest Son try to overcome the darkness which falls on you on account of heimwhe it will soon pass away

With a tender kiss
 your Mama J.G.


1Mein herzlieber Friederle! Wie freut es uns allemal wenn ein Brief von Dir kommt, und gestern noch das gutgelungene, herzignette Bild dazu! Mein lieber Friedel sei nur heiter und gutes Muths, der Heiland hat Dich ja lieb und macht Dich gerne glücklich, Du mußt Ihm nur viel zutrauen. 
Gestern war Scheffel's Hochzeit und heute reist das junge Paar fort. Paul und David sammt den zwei andern waren sehr beleidigt, daß sie nicht eingeladen worden waren, sie hatten es scheints ganz fest erwartet. Paul ist ganz ingrimmig und will auch die geschenkten Gutle nicht anrühren. - Mama bittet, du möchtest Großmama mit Deinen Heidelbeeren nicht belästigen, wenn Du sie nicht allein bemeistern kannst, so kriegst Du gewiß ganz leicht einen Helfershelfer, der Dir beim Vernichtungswerke beisteht. Nun laß Dir alles recht schmecken, mein lieber, lieber Bruder. Sam und alle grüßen herzlich. Es küßt Dich Deine (eilige) treue
 Schwester Marie
