Herrn Fried Gundert1

<II e II R.>* Calw 8th July 1863

My beloved Frederic

Your welcome letter of yesterday has rejoiced me very much, yes my dearest it helps one to pray Surely our Lord and heavenly father loves us so very much yea more than any earthly parent can do, only we cannot believe it; but in the same measure fears and doubts are driven away from our hearts are we able to believe His great love to us. I often thought when my dear son feels himself among strangers he will begin to seek God for his portion and friend. I am glad you have no liking for Conrad W. avoid companies which can hurt you, seek your old frend Frederic Müller he has just now vacance for some weeks he may help you to find in Stutg a propre friend with whom you might have walks and perhaps empty your heart and do your self good We pray that God might give you such a good dear friend; and till you find such one rather keep to the Lord alone. You did not tell us how is your chest have you no pain? My sickness dearest Frederic was specially a great weakness and also diarrhee. I am thank God better; but I must keep quiet for I have not yet much strength to run about. You must have patience about Beiser having broken your things, it is indeed provoking; but what to do?

You will soon see your dear brother Samuel who will give you all the news about us all. Carl is I think becoming some what more diligent. Paul as ever at his lessons the whole day. Herman Gross is again well but still at home and glad to have his Rudolph these weeks. David is the old David too high minded, Heinrich as lieb as ever. I fear I schall not see you next sunday; but papa will bring me news of you. As I schall have to go to Stutgart for Tanteles marriage or during the days that Paul shall be there for the landexamen I will avoid going now away.

I must tell you Adieu my dearest Son Frederic. Read your Bibel and good books

 Your affectionate Mama
 J. Gu


1Sei nur gutes Muths. Der liebe Gott hat noch viel in Seiner Schublade für Dich. Wenn Du Ihm ein lustiges zutrauliches Gesicht zeigst, zieht Er es nach einander heraus und macht Dir Freude damit bis Du die Augen aufsperrst. Darauf ists abgesehen mit aller Schwere die das Herz drückt. Nun lebe wohl! Der HErr mache Dich fröhlich und zufrieden
 Dein V.

