 Calw 18th June 1863
 <Detroit 9 July>*
Liebe Christine

Bis yetzt habe ich dir gar nicht geschrieben und doch ich bin täglich in meinen Gedanken bei dir. Der letzte Brief den wir von dem lieben Hermann bekommen haben hat uns viel Freude gemacht wir können darauf sehen und verstehen wie es taglich mit euch geht. Ich freue mich dass Gott meinem lieben sohn eine Gehülfin gegeben hat und dass er glucklich mit ihr ist. Moge unser lieber Heiland mit euch sein und euch so lehren und segen dass ihr nicht nur selber selig werdet sondern auch ein Segen für <andere>* werdet. Du siehst dass ich Deutch nicht schreiben kann und wirdst dann zufrieden sein mit ein paar lignien von deiner Mutter die dich liebt und viel an euch beide denkt.

Mit einem Herzlichen Küss
 Deine Julie Gundert


Dear Herman

Many thanks for your last which has given me joy. I thank God who has given you an help meet with whom you are happy and learn to follow the Lord together You will rejoice with us that Samuel is at last to go to India. In this year three if not four of our children are to leave us at least we hope that Frederic will find a place and Paul pass the Land examen, of late he has not been amiable he is vain and some what rancourous against his friend Heinrich Gross who lives with us. You know that Carl Weigle is also with us; but no stimulant for our David for Carl is idle and likes his ease. Heinrich is a dear boy and David cleaves to him more than to Carl of which I am glad Paul begins to be anxious about the examen which is to take place in August. the three others who are to do it next year can still laugh about it. David is a little more diligent than he used to do, but speaks still of becoming a sailor, he does not grow at all, while Paul is nearly as tall as Samuel, they all 5 boys sleep in the big Salle and in a few days comes also Adolph Mohl who is ill and wants a change of air and as we have no room he must be with the boys one is building above for Bardth girls and till it is finished they live in the rooms we are to get with Gottlob Barth too.

We expect Tante Reiniger at the end of this week for a visit. Papa has much to do and is often not quite well, he has become rather thin, I am glad Jettle is with us and trust she will be a real help for him specially if Marie shoold leave us, she likes Bale very much she will have written and given you much news from there. Now dear Herman I must say adieu I woold like to see you with your dear wife, is she tall? you will by and by learn kooking with her. Your papa cuts also wood when it rains instead of a walk 
Adieu dear children.
 your Mama
 J.G.
