<Herrn Friedrich Gundert, Stuttgart.>*

 <Calw 2 November 1863>*
Lieber Frederic

Your letter has just come and as I have a pair of boots ready I will send them by the omnibus tomorow morning, you have not told what has cost your box? papa will write you an other time he has just returned from Reichenbach where he had a meeting, he is rather tired, In your last letter you wrote you were not well, as you say nothing in this I trust you are well and happy in the Lord. When hard and dark moments come look to the Lord who has been tempted in all things like us. He is able to help us to overcome ourselves. I feel much for you dearest Frederic and pray often for you; for I know how the devil can try one who has weak nerves, how often doubts, darkness, ill-humour unbelief can upset one; but be of good cheer the Lord has began His work in you He will perfect it every one of the children of God are tried in many ways and we must fight the good fight. Read again your pilgrim progress it has done me much good when I was young and much tempted. Keep to prayer earnestly and to the reading of the word of God. You should keep a small testament in your poket and read a little as often as you can. I remember the time I could but read it in passing and even in the prive!

Yette and Heinrich send you much love, David and Carl are playing as usual so they know not I write to you, pray also for David he is rather disobedient and learns not well, He and Carl are good friends, Heinrich will not study he learns now frenshe indtead of greek for he will become a merchant or learn any trade. Now my dear son a tender kiss from me, Marie is at Tubingen for a few days

Adieu peace and joy be with you. Salute Mr Hebich from me
 Your mama J. Gundert

send me your boots that I can have them mended
