+ Dr Gundert an seine Enkelin in Montmirail

 Calw 17 Septbr 1889.
My dear Anya

I have long thought to write to you, particularly to tell you how rejoiced I was to hear of that idea which you communicated to your dear father, how a beginning could be made of repeopling the empty house. You know what I mean, the idea that you might have here a room for yourself, without preventing your service at your Mama's house during part of the day. Yesterday the emigration took place: dear uncle John and his Mary with the 4 children left after tea and prayers to sleep in their new lodging which Lise had helped them to arrange to the best of her ability. Theodor had left for Stuttg. on the 11th, from whence he went to Groningen where he is to sing in the German theatre, Carl betook himself to Esslingen, where he had Ernst jr for a compagnon. These two came on Sunday afternoon to Nürtingen where I was for the Mission feast. They arrived after churchtime and drank beer with us, the pastors etc. at the Dean's (Ellwanger) house. Also Sophie Gdt came 5 1/2 by railroad and sat with us, till we left. 6 3/4 we returned to Eßlingen, where the three left us, and I with my sister went on to Stuttg. You will have heard, that when I had on that morning (15 Septb) arrived at Stuttg, it was not David that met me, but my Emma, who announced that five hours had scarcely elapsed since a new (the 22nd grandchild had come into the world, a Ruth, as David told me, who came afterwards with William to the station to greet me. I slept at aunt Emma's who lives now together with Emma Reiniger in the third loft of Hohestraße 6. Aunt Breuning comes to join them, she will occupy the 2nd loft; the 4th receives the 2 widows who formerly lived below. So there will be 5 widows in that house and no man with them. Of course I told my sister that I should like her to come and live with me, whenever her service with her 2 aunts should come to an end; but that is in the hand of God and we keep that to ourselves. So much I wanted to tell you about the changes that have come to us in this month. I cannot of course forget that I am 75 years old and may any day be called upon to leave this house and follow my dear Julie who has gone before to better mansions (tomorrow it is 4 years that we parted). Now then if it is God's will that I am still here below in May 1890, it would be a great joy to me if a grandchild of the same name (and I fancy also of similar character) should come to live with me, old fellow that I am! I hope only it will not be too dreary a time, but also a little amusing and instructive for a young soul. I trust we shall have no quarrels and if I at times should be a little morose you would cheer me up by some juvenile outburst. 
Aber vielleicht habe ich schon zu lange in fremder Sprache mit Dir geredet und Du hast Mühe mein Zeugs zu lesen. Also nur noch die Nachricht daß der Hase, den Dein Papa von Marienhof gebracht hat (geschossen am 13 Sept Abds mit 2 andern von Herrn Günther nachdem am 14 die Jagderlaubniß gegeben worden war, geschenkt an F Gdt 14 Abds und von Herrn Deuschle abgezogen am 16.) seit gestern Abd in der Beize liegt und in ein paar Tagen verzehrt werden soll. In der Nacht war er im Keller des Steinhauses hoch aufgehängt worden, was Frida mit lustigem Geberdenspiel einem vormalt, so hoch droben, daß keine Katze dran kommen kann. Es war ihr sehr wichtig. Auch das ist ihr wichtig daß das Mariele mit Paul am Sonntag früh durch Willy Hoch nach Hirsau verbracht worden ist, wo sie viel schrie, sobald Paul zur Thür hinaus ging; jetzt wird sie an Luisle gewöhnt sein, Willy mußte natürlich am Montag heimkehren. Adieu, liebes Herz. Mit einem Kuß
 Dein Opa.
