Mrs H Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseilles and Madras

 Bale Kinderhaus 23 May 1859
My dear wife and Marie

Here I am at last in a quiet hour to tell you of all the joys which our dear Lord has prepared and given me. We landed safely the 18th early at Marseilles, could have gone on as the Engl did by express train to Dijon about 10 AM. But as I sought for letters at Mr Weiss and had to run after him (by Carriage) I was delayed and the baggage did not arrive at the terminus till 11 o clock. So I drank something with Pfarrer Roth and went off 12 AM with a slow train which stopped at Valence. Passed a troublesome night, heard always the whistle of trains going Southward with troops and guns - every where warlike noises - About 3 AM awoke and got ready for express train which hurried us thro' Lyon Macon (where the stout man once entered into our carriage) Chalons to Dijon. There rain and long delay till the train started for Besan‡on. We were so late that we had to rest at Belfort instead of Muhlhausen. Already we heard much German - all looked green as at home - people begun to laugh at my Suntopee, which frenchmen had only occasionally stared at (respectfully) - Had a nice German hotel, started 20th early for Mühlhausen, where a new delay occurred - but about 10 we passed St Louis, the passport was shown and treated with reverence (it called Percy and myself "British subjects") and we crossed the Swiss boundary. I left everything at the French Bahnhof and groped my way to the Missionhouse. Insp. absent, but Gess came, the Senior accompanied me to the Voranstalt where Herr Kolb received me very brotherly - two young men were called in - H thought it was for a letter, S. it might be myself - there they stood and first H threw himself into my arms, and then S. more slowly with a beaming face saying: Vater! Then I had them to myself a little while. H. looks very lively and clear about the face: ___ the forehead and nose appear much more decided in profile than in the daguerrotype. Saml is exactly as in the portrait. We talked but little as I wished of course to visit quickly the Kinderhaus. They put on their better coats and walked on with me - miles I think but did not feel it - anxious to support me. Before the Spahlengate we came soon to the immense shell of the new Missionhouse, 4 storied with wings, all of red sandstone and lookg quite imposing, behind it appeared the newly completed Home, before which some boys were tumbling about. A redhaired little fellow sprang forward to meet us - It is David - no - yes it is, the brothers said, and already he jumps into my arms, then looks doubtingly round whether this is Papa indeed. Afterwards he said, he had been somewhat uncertain but my beard assured him of the identity. He is grown quite boyish, the face much ruder than when we knew it, covered with spots like Ernsts. Malayalam would not do with him English little better, in German he expressed himself well, yea and has examined me since in Latin etc. After 1/2 hour the 2 others came home from school saw us from afar, ran to meet us, and there was Vau, quite well again, exactly the face he has on the Daguerrotype which gives him together with Eddy in 55; very open and innocent, and then Frederick, with a healthy colour, but rather lean face, the eyes sometimes very bright, then downcast, the expression of the face always varying. Their joy was immense. We then went aside and I prayed and thanked our Lord, together with you both in the spirit. I hope you shared in our joy. I was then invited to live in the Kinderhaus and at dinner saw the whole crowd, all well, Chr Irion looking much better than I had expected, Carl having just given up taking his drops and going to school regularly - all the Indians and the Africans too clang to me - they are happy indeed. The afternoon I unpacked at the Missionhouse, the remaining plums were discovered and eaten, also some Chinese fruits Leechees which I had brought from the Ottawa for them. Herm. ran to their Rector to get leave for them. I had plenty shirts remaining for use, gave the rest for wash. The Currystuff had - alas! - yellowed many things, and the codliveroil, of which I had but drunk twice at Bombay was spilt - but no loss to speak of. Slept in the new beds with difficulty (after I had seen Fr P D laid into theirs). 21st tried to see the Presidt Christ in vain - also on Mond and Tuesday - but saw Mrs Huber, whose husbd was absent on a tour. She spoke strongly agst the writing which (Insp had told H) had been sent from India advising Albr's never returning to India. Otherwise she was nice. James I met repeatedly and Sophie, but healthy. Mrs H able perhaps to return to India for 4 years, says her brother. 2 members of the Children's Commission visit, one Pfarrer Cramer who speaks very liberally and nicely: hopes the brothers will be more permitted to see the little ones. H. had been hardly treated in this matter as he deserved. But I have not yet seen my way to speak about this. Meanwhile they come to me freely. Mr. Kolb less narrow on this point than Pf Meuret. Very tired from a cold I had to dismiss them sooner than I should have done otherwise. 22 Sunday. Forenoon at home. In the afternoon to Ostertags at Gundeldgen where we 3 dined and the little ones came in for the afternoon, much amused with garden chickens etc whilst I had to sit with Marie's Mama and Papa and relate. Ostertag showed me H's and S's testimonials. As for their Miss[ionar]y calling Kolb had stated H's to be entschieden (decided), S's the next aufrichtig (sincere) - their 3d and lowest judgment is unklar (confuse). Otherwise I found that many people trusted S rather than H, f.i. Meuret, who fears H's interference may lower the teachers in the opinion of the children. The Ost's full of love for M. Strange to say Staudt is still half angry with O for taking Marie away from Kornth whilst Ost fancied St wanted her to be removed. Of Olga he can learn nothing. I shall inquire at K. D.V. St weather in the evening, perhaps you had also one that Sunday. O. looks considerably older, more than she. 23. Monday. Went to see the girls. Marie Fritz very tall, good testimonials (the 3d or 4th among some 30 girls) good behaviour, had been very frenchified and Doll like when returning from Strasbg. Now she looks simple and happy. Miss Müller the best in her class Miss Scholtz a superior person, but not easily known in 1-2 hours. Then to the Ecklin's. Very happy there, the old people quite fresh and young. Dinner with Mrs Huber the widow and Prof Burkhardt of Schaffhausen who gives good news of Deggeller. All the children were there: Mrs H expects perhaps too many visits from Herm. Sam has of course no calling to visit and is glad when one forbids his going into families. 24. This morning I went to the Misshouse and found Inspector returned from Würtbg, where all is full of the coming war, The troops all ready (Bavaria 100000 Würtbg 30000 etc). Insp fears the new Miss.house, which Carl Saras. (Comm. member) wished to make the most prominent one of whole B, might become a French Barrack. About India - Sauv. is given over to Mgl. if he then do not become more useful, he will be dismissed. Insp. complains much of the hard judgmts passed in Ind on new brethren - look where you will, he says, first class people are very very rare. Of Chr. Müll he says with grief, that he indeed writes personally quite the contrary of what he subscribes to in Conferences. Don't speak much about this: but it makes me sad. What has been written to Glasson is I fear a damper on the whole Vythery plan. Diez irritates the Comm. by his unintelligible letters. Irion has perplexed them in Sauv's case by his invariably favorable testimonies concerning him: so were Fritz's first reports about Mrs Sauv. But there was no connected conversation - only bits continually interrupted by visitors - amongst these esp. L Moerike whom I did not know again so stout he had become - and his bride Louise Hoffaker of Stuttg - a nice pair. They came from Chur (Coire) and were glad to have less of warnoise in Switz than they had in Würtbg. Just now as I write Huber passed before my window and called Sahebe Selam: so I went down and jumped over the rails (fine white varnished) with immense exertion - and fancy only the 3 fellows jumped after me: what Mr Meuret's propriety will say to it when he hears it I do not know, but I fear he will be glad when I go. There is more laughing and stir amongst the boys* than there was before - and I have not learnt the laws. Asked after them, but they are not written. If a boy excuses himself with not knowing or forgetting he is told to remember better - D is quite glad that he has such a good memory. I asked him whether he was ever flogged. Yes, said he, once Mr M's aunt came for a visit and the boys resolved to tell her that her nephew was too strict: they hoped he would be less severe in future. D said then: I will now see whether he will mend (ob er sich bessert): and for this he got the first flogging. The 2d when he once came to dinner jumped upon the bank and cowered down on it beating himself in joyful glee (weil ich Dummheiten gemacht habe). Friederich had once a flogging for dressing in a table cloth and frightening the others. D.1 thinks he has been sulky since that time. He is in fact the most discontented of the children. He also lies on my bed in the early morning, but is not as open as the younger fellows: I find it difficult to convince him of wrong. He always reverts to the old wish: if only aunt was here, it would be so much nicer. The others speak the same thing, but do not feel the change very deeply. D. laughs when he relates his little trials. Frau Pfarrer they say ist nicht streng. She gives me the impression of a very kind and careful mother. But also he is a truly valuable man; though he respects forms and order very deeply, one feels he has a heart for the children. - Tomorrow Committ meeting - and just now Fred. (Dubois) announces himself by telegramm, so I shall have to write about him next time. Also Huber wants me to see him tomorrow. I might have had an opportunity today to send Percy to Kornth but am so tired with walking about, that I prefer to put it off and go myself with him next week. For business I ought to be at the Mission house, for here I cannot send messages etc except when I have the boys. They are good servants indeed for running or carrying (in a Zeine) my clothes and other things - but I must not trust them in seeking new houses, for they don't mind a long walk

1Plenty kisses and Selams from your David
2Mama are you well and will you soon come to your Eddy.
3What schall I write I am and remain your Paul.

4Now goodbye - Here a specimen of the Latin writing of the three. They make dreadful noise at their meals No shyness there I can assure you - good food and cheerful spirit

Now 8 PM The boys bring their enclosures and I conclude - The Lord be with you all

 Your HGdt
