Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay <to be sent to Mercara>1

 Corcelles 15 Juillet 59
My dear wife

I think I wrote to you the day before our departure for this place. Saturday the 9th I rose very early and awakened first David who sleps with the younger boys in the bedroom of the lower story - and then the 2 bigger fellows on the upper story - when we were ready we went to the Mission house where H. and S. had just taken their abode after the close of the preparatory course. We had Coffee and proceeded to the railroad. There it was a lively scene - no more of Christians as during the anniversary week, but of Schützen, proceeding au tir f‚d‚ral … Zürich. They had horns trumpets and other brass instruments with them and played nicely esp. during the 7 minutes which it took us to pass thro' the great Hauenstein tunnel. At Bienne Herm left us to see a friend, we went by steamer to Neuch where uncle Fred. with a basket for his purchases received us at the quai. We took some refreshmts at Henri Colin's and walked the rest of the way. The heat was great and the trip tired me a good deal. The 2 sisters received us very joyfully, little Fred. Dub. had run before to greet his Papa and look at his cousins, with whom of course he soon got up a good understanding, more in German than with his Engl. and French. The house of Henriette is as you know very deep. We all had room in it - On the bel etage the chief room serves for the meals the opposite room towards the street belongs to the sisters. The room above theirs was assigned to our 5 boys, whilst I with the 2 Fred. D's sleep on the opposite side with the view of the lake and the Mountains. Fred. is stronger than when I saw him last and more cheerful. I think his liver is better than he fancies, but he is something of a hypochonder. Now and then he works … la vigne and is not the worse for it. Henr. appears really to suffer from a hardening liver, still she is always active only with less energy than Uranie. This one thinks of going to a bath, her hands being apparently affected by gout Fran‡ois will come in Sept. so I have the hope of making also his acquaintance. The 2 American ladies profess to belong to Churches as living members, Fred's to a Baptist Church and Francis' to Congregationalists: but our dear sisters can draw nothing from them, not a word which would prove them to be alive in Christ. When pride vanity and other virtues exhibit themselves in his wife Francis can ask her: is this your Christianity? Indeed Uranie thinks Francis nearer the truth than both the wives: he shows more and more a mind similar to Grandpapa very quiet and aimable. On Sunday 10th I felt too tired to go out, the 2 boys visited the meeting in the evening, where Henr. begged they might also pray for the conversion of her Fritz. He seems to be in bad company and tries to disbelieve Scripture altogether. This I have from Fred. who does not like to tell his mother the whole case. Henr. begs you not to send him the stick, he is already vain and grand enough.

11th I visited Mr Grellet and dear Chable, the latter on his bed, laid up by a disease in one foot for already 3 months. He is still very lively and full of love Gr. kind but liveless as far as I see. He seemed to think that the German language admits of a more homely style of preaching whilst in French one must preach by the rule in order not to offend the people. Having for a week had no news of the outer world I at last asked him for newspapers and got the message of the peace preliminaries signed. 
As the boys write about it I can not pass by the state of my health. I should have liked to avoid the Bale feastweek, but the Comm. summoned me so I had but to obey. Now I feel that it has done me no good: and since I am here the discharges have become more frequent and weakening. Instead of going to Vevey I shall therefore send H. and S. and hope to pay the visit at a later period. I sent today for medecine and feel now better but fancy the best will be soon to return to Würtbg and continue the cure. Here I cannot even bathe as I fear the return uphill from the lake. And I feel that I ought to postpone every thing to the care of my health that I may be the sooner enabled to return. Farewell meanwhile and love to Marie, whose Lina I have not seen as she is with her Mama in a bath. I am sorry for the 2 sisters to leave so soon, for they do every thing they can for us, the food etc much more recherch‚ than in 46. Fred. of course demanding also particular care - they love the children and bear with their noise. I hope to go by way of Staefa and help there a little. Now with best love to you both (and the friends) farewell from your
 HGdt
