 Calicut Sept 20th 59
Dear Papa.

Yours of the 2 and 8th August came together on the 10th of septb. both through Madras though one was directed via Bombay I am rejoiced to hear dear Frederic came so near you and I trust it will please the Lord to make him soon to know the freedom of the children of God instead of the spirit of bondage. I long to hear how they are now going on at school! Our letters to you seem to be longer in the way than yours to us A steamer is now to go monthly from Bombay down the coast and touch to all the places. The Scarcity of rice is so great that at Cannanore one cannot get one mooda for ten Rps. here it is 4 1/2 Rs but one cannot get as much as wanted Marie has written you about the successors of Mr Holloway, Thomas On the 13th Hebich left the Hills for Madras where he is to imbark by the second Steamer how quick things go with him. You shall soon see him perhaps before this reaches you even Fritz still undecided to go home or stay. Pauline M. had an other billious attack and hopes to be permitted to go home. About the 22d the Diezes are coming to proceed to the Hills it is a good opportunity for Marie. he D. goes along till the hills; they will leave their baby with me as they cannot get a nurse to feed the baby willing to go to the hills. 
Convert is desapointed in his Emanuel he told some lies specially about that story with the boys. Three Catechists boys are to go home in January. 
Herriette Hodges has happily refused Kittle. I do not think she would truly be a real missionary wife, except under one who would know how to rule <guide> her well. Garthwaite is not please with his supiriors he has taken the appointment but for 6 month of trial, he must pass two examination Canarese and Malayalam.

both of them are worldly people, he got a place in the Catchery a undee* Mr Bates for your Ramen. The two pions are still with him; but he will get rid of them when he goes to Mang at the end of this month.

Mr Grant has asked Convert to open a school to be a preparatory one for Thompson, he will give till 50 Rs per month even more if necessary; but no one is to know that he does it, it must be as done by the Mission, he gave 50 R to fit up the corner house where the weaving was formerly. Do not mention it as yet. as they will try first to see whether it unswers or succeeds. Thompson is quite pleased of it. Convert is a real man to carry on business. extreemely diligent and I believe every day more careful, watchful. Fritz might leave him the charge of the congregation without being troubled about it. Lauffer is also improving I believe much more work than formerly, and his prayers improving too.

Your letter from Dizenbach 13 Aug has come in hand on the 18th Sept. I trust the next one will tell us more about your health. The 90 Rs for the horse Mr Fritz has kept, for you had borrowed so much from him for your journey at least Mr F told me that! Beutler is still at Coimbatoor very ill. Fritz will have told you all about him. from Herman a short letter as if he had homesickness. Next time will bring some news about the little ones I trust. and about you dear papa; you would probably have returned too soon here had you not again felt the complaint returning; however I believe the Lord will soon make it all right and bring you back in His own good time I am going to advice the Diezes to wean their child and take it with them on the hills, it is a great responsability for me to keep her, specially since I had a cold some time ago rhumatism and cough I feel not so strong as before!

Here all is as usual Samuel the same his wife very nice, all our people one by one beg to send you plenty Salams. The Cholera is in Calicut and in the neighbourhood perhaps the Lord will spare us still.

Salisbury is to be Convert's school muster for the English, he is an able man and quiet. it will begin next month perhaps Lauffer makes the tables and benches, Mrs Grant says that if Mr Rimigton knew a Mission is to be established in Vytry He would certainly help much! The mother of our little girl who died 12 days ago is dying too the poor blind man her husband weeps much.

Love to all our friends
 Yours affectly
 J. Gund
