Mrs Gundert, Calicut, via Marseille and Bombay

 Stuttg 2 Aug 59
My dear wife

A week ago I wrote that my health is going on better since I returned to Stuttg. This is still the case. I have now 2ce gone to Berg to bathe in the Neckar and feel benefitted by it. The boys walk generally down and return with me in a carriage. Adolf has been here for a week, he has no doubt a commencement of spiritual life, but is not very hard agst his nature. Ernst was here 3 days, you know I like him, but do not feel that he comes nearer. Gustav is determinedly opposed to all exhortation. Theodor truly hearty and Johanne perhaps yet deeper in her heart's devotion to the Lord. They stay a little longer and I find much enjoyment in their intercourse. Their Helene is only too clever a child, full of wise sayings. David Hermann all 5 in fact are very intimate with her. Fred. sleeps in my room and works the whole day with sewing, stitching etc in Stramin: which I asked dear Emma to give him for his amusements. His health is much better than it has been at Corcelles and Zürich. He is cheerful and tender with me. It is remarkable how well he remembers all about Chiracal, Cannanore etc. Also David follows him easily in his reminiscences and can then suddenly ask: shall I once more see my Mama? Paul is a dear fellow, Gschickterle I call him, for he steps on my shoe or stick, allows plate or tumbler to slip down and smiles cheerfully all along: his play on the piano is respectable and incessant. Dear Emma is very happy in her simple faith. Aunt Breuning had once a long conversation with me on the Bopser, I think she seeks a little after something abiding. Otto Hermann the Lutheran minister and Reinhardt have come to see me. The latter is very tender and kind. Samuel has already visited him: and we shall all follow within a few days.

Not a word as yet of Frederick and Uranie's movements. He was to go to Canstadt Uranie to Baden near Zürich. I hope daily to see his face. Selma is again pretty well. All salute you tenderly. So do I with a kiss to you and one to Marie. Love to the brethren
 Your HG.
