 <ca. 2 May 59>*
My precious Paul

I had hoped to hear, that my sweet son who had been ill in bed unable to learn for many weeks would afterward be very diligent and try to regain very fast the lost time - but elas what do I hear no good news; but I hope that the next one will be good that is to say that my sweet Paul is learning very diligently, is not only obedient to the dear parents put over him by God; but that he loves them and is thankful, no more thinking in his little naughty heart and talking with the other boys, our papa is too severe he ask too many lessons from us, or there are too many rules; That is a wicked thing to speak or think so. You do not know it dear children but it is wrong. You imagine to have it hard. There are many poor children obliged to wark the whole day to hard labours who would be very thankful to be able to learn; but they have no time for it; no one will pay for them, there are many even in there father house who would be thankful to get half of the good food you have; but their parents have no money to buy it for them. O my dear boys the Lord has done great things for you could you but see, how thankful you would be. Do you think that children brought up very softly indulged in all wat they like can ever become real men for any thing? If some do they have to labour hard and to lament the want of correction in their infancy Oh my dear boys I hope to hear you next time say we have been fools and now with Gods grace will do and think better. 
Your dear Mimi sends you much love and your Mama in telling you truth which perhaps is not very tastful loves you very dearly and heartily. 
 Ever yours affectly
 Julie Gundert
