 Basel 15 Nov 59
Liebe Marie

It was last Friday, the 32d day after you had sealed it that your Coonoor letter came to hand. That was quick work indeed. But I wondered at your description of the journey - that was strange management! especially 11 PM - 5 AM going up to Coonoor which you might well have done in half the time by dailight! Did you ride - and was it on my pony? Your news all are very welcome - that about Col Woodfall I wrote at once to Hebich who is still in France or somewhere - he neither writes where he lives nor when he will come - leaving Mr Weiss to care for the direction of the letters. I was surprised to see the Bishop so suddenly side with Mr Nagle. He might have spared himself the exposition before Government! But we learn more and more not to be surprised at the doings and turnings of men! I wonder whether this is to find you at the hills. If you are near Hoch tell him he ought to make over my letters about the native books writing or to be written for Mr Arbuthnot - either to Mr Irion or to another brother who will care for the matter. Plebst wrote to me on the subject as if none had an idea whence information on that matter may be had. - Ludwig writes from Louisville Oct 19. an Fritz "Mein lieber Sohn. Schon seit vielen Jahren habe ich 2 Brieflein von Dir erhalten sie haben mich sehr gefreut weil ich daraus ersehen habe daß Du immer noch an Deinen alten Vater (wenn auch im Unglück) denkst. Fritz! erinnere Dich noch an unsere Bergreisen denke Dich (sic) noch an den Rigi an den Angeri See, an den Pfannenstiel, überhaupt an alle unsere Spaziergänge. Sollte es mir wieder einmal gut gehen so sehen wir uns wieder. Grüße Mutter Nat und Ludw. Dein treuer Vater LG.

I wash myself every morning - the 2 sons bring me the water and carry it afterwds away, out of the tinbox into which I have to stand to pour it over me. This seems to do me good. The 3 in the Home are always pressing me to come and live with them, but for the present I do not see my way clear. They pass with me some hours every Wednesday and Saturday afternoon, also on Sunday. David comes more than the others because he is bolder to ask for leave whenever he fancies he has a free hour - he reads a great deal. Aunt Emma gave me a pelisse gown, which David for fun's sake puts on occasionally, lies on my bed and reads his Robinson. Of course he also makes use of my boots now and then. At 10 AM I eat 2 eggs. When the fellows come in the afternoons they generally scrape the white out of them, and are then thankful if I have left also a bit of the yolk in one. Frederick is of better temper than he was during my absence. He had been somewhat harshly spoken to by his teacher Ganser, who instructs them in singing and playing piano. This induced him to give up the latter. But I have prevailed on him to begin it again. Paul however is much in advance of him in this accomplishment. Now farewell I hope you put on the whole armour of God (Eph VI.) you want it because the fight is with invisible foes far superior to us in cunning and power. May the Lord keep you thro' faith
 your Papa
