 Dizenb. 3 Sept 59
Liebe Marie

What you say: I did not even greet you - learn then to be forgotten at times and find reasons for it either from your unworthiness or from my undeniable weakness. Anyhow accept again a kiss from me and believe that after each day's forgetting I manage somehow or other to catch again a faint glimpse of my daughter and fancy I have her with me for a moment. Is Mrs Garthw. with you? or at Thompson's? I am glad you find some companionship also in Miss Haxham and trust you profit from her wellmeant offer. - Remember me esp to Mrs Grant and Mrs Bean whom God has made helps to His work in Mama's hand. Mrs Burkhardt I saw once at Ostertag's, she asked of course a good deal after you, but I had only a few minutes with her as Ost. took me to see the other guests in the so called Laube. Emily stands by gives the coffee and behaves properly as far as I see, but I have hardly heard 10 words from her. When I return to Basle (perhaps in a fortnight) I will try and see again your friends and gather reminiscences for your use. As to the place we may be sent to, who knows! I think however Cannanore has for the present most chances: only you must not take it for granted as it depends upon so many uncertain things and I have hardly had a talk with Josenhans since the end of June. Correspdce none at all so that I in fact know less of Basle than was the case in India. - With Ernst and Gustav I have tried a word now and then but shall not trouble them much more except God open a particular door for it. E. is only a goodnatured man of science, G. loves pleasure (his singing society and occasional beerclub) and will not hear. He is rarely with us in the evenings and if I attack him he stays away some days longer. On Monday 5th I hope to return to Stuttg where I shall hardly meet him once more as he is on a longer journey. Ernst however will be there for the vacation. My letters from Bale are of a kind calculated to rejoice me, but the boys write more rarely than during the first absence. The vacation has somehow satiated their longing after me. As for me I felt the 3 weeks here very lonely and am glad when I return again to a part of our widespread family. A Miss Wanser here knows Mrs Würth (Fanny Leitner) she wishes to be a Christian, but not with Pietistian strictness. I had today a long talk with her - on the necessity of knowing oneself to be in a state of grace. But it is a difficult thing to look to the one thing needful as long as the heart is anxious to please everyone. I hope now soon to have done with bathing and such like exercises - it begins to be cold in the mornings, the days get visibly shorter even in a bath where hours are not counted and I wish I was soon ready for the overland route. Hoo what a cold winter it will be! Farewell
 Your Papa
