Miss Gundert, Calicut

9 Bomb 26 Apr 59

My dear Marie

This then is to be the day of my embarcation, though perhaps not of my departure out of the harbour. This we shall only hear when we are on board. I think I wrote 4 letters from the Carnac: then followed the telegr Message and 4 letters to Mama. This I have also numbered, so that you may expect No 10 from Aden. 11 from Egypt 12 from Malta 13 from Marseilles 14 from Basle. Already a fortnight that I left you, and more than 1/3 of the travellingtime is over, I believe also the most tiresome part. But we shall see. My health is much better than at Calic. Still I was tired yesterday when I took my 2 trunks on board the Ottawa and returned walkg from the Mazagaum bander - not 1 mile's distance. I do not think I shall return to India if I have not succeeded in marching say from Stuttg to Kornthal without fatigue. For this purpose I will carefully manage my bit of strength, but repeat the trial again and again until I succeed. I am glad you have found a friend in Miss Sc. Let me assure you that I have found as close friends in foreigners as in countrymen, though of course without den Schmelz der Jugend etc If we look upon God's hands we often perceive how he forges a tie for us, not quite according to our prepossessing notions, but intended to bring us out of some narrowness of ours. When I first went to Engld in 1835 I could hardly bear the separation from so many dear friends, and consequently was rather cold to the new faces that surrounded me. I dare say I repeatedly repelled advances from which I might have profited. But gradually we learn what the word means to love our neighbours - and we must give up electoral affinities (Wahlverwandschaften) and be content with God's choice for us. It is a great thing if we can thankfully receive what he provides for us; for our nationality and other narrownesses, though they are a useful school and stand under God's providence, are not the end we look too but the joining of the great chorus of apostles prophets martyrs and other chosen vessels out of all languages and kindreds. Therefore we pilgrims have to learn to be at home with divers people of every colour, yea of each century too - and where we discover the image of our Lord let us embrace it gladly and be thankful. - Poor Mrs Stimmel* I have already forgotten her former name - so old do I become! - No doubt of it - we shall be ashamed one day and wonder how coolly we could behave to our Savior after knowing him, and there will be more cause for regret than Sam. can ever feel for having rejected the warm advances of his brother. We are strange people no doubt! Know that one died for us once and now lives for us evermore and not be mad after him as Mary Magdalene was. I dare say she was not very ladylike then in the garden - but how she will have leapt at the word Mary! I wish you to leap too whenever you hear it and then good bye to Lady and Gentleman. The lost chicken has found her lost hen and feels again snug and at home. Oh let us not be ashamed of our dear Savior nor stand on compliments with him, but rush into His arms and forget the whole world over Him. With kiss to Mama and yourself
 Your Papa
