 Basel 2 Nov 1859
My dear girl

What a creature you are to doubt about my affection for you - I will now tell you why I called Mrs D<aur>* "noble" - because 1.) she told me what she did with Staudt for you 2.) because she loved you though you were also very wayward with her so much so that she could at first not quite understand why you should now love her so strongly, seeing you had at times been rather cool with her and offended at her remonstrances 3.) because I saw her with her own children and with those of Isenberg etc etc Why should you think I mocked at her -? I may now and then laugh a little at something I observe in you, but surely not in a friend of her character. - That Miss-[ionar]y Rath of the Barmen Society who lost his wife and children in a shipwreck in Whalefish bay was not from India but from the Cape. - It is very fine that you are so disgusted with yourself and I wish only you may continue thus. There is something quite refreshing to my mind in your confession about the survival of old wishes and affections. You need not fear that I shall set about combating them: you are perfectly at liberty to indulge them - only I can but prophecy to you that you will not profit by them, but get so disgusted bye and bye that you can pray with a single mind to be delivered from all revealed hindrances to God's purpose with you - and then it will be done. It is right you should struggle - and struggles you will have in some shape or other until the end. What a wonder if we get the victory at last after we have perhaps nearly given up striving lawfully, having often discovered ourselves in a secret league with the enemy! Well let us commit this to the Lord - who sees what you are and what you need! - 4 A.M. Just now I have heard that Hebich has safely arrived at Marseilles but is so much astonished at the cold that he writes undecided whether he will come and seems to look out for a warmer country than Bale or Germany to pass the winter. This appears to me a mistake, for with us he can be helped and looked after, whereas there he has only those fireplaces, and badly fitted doors windows etc. I hope he may still come: for today it is so warm that one cannot see the breath, much snow has been melted and the Rhine has been full indeed. He may after all make his appearance within a day or two. Still it seems a mark of sickness that the weather should so much influence him who has been so much on the hills in all seasons. He left Madras on the 26th and reached Marseilles the 28th. of Oct. 
Zaremba lives near me and is very dear - the 2 boys have plenty to do - really earnest work, and Herm. has taken a new start to do the Lord's will and aim at a whole conversion. You can see in his manner that he is now much more happy. David is really full of love and ingenuity with Fred and Paul I had some hard words on account of that murmuring spirit which now and then tries the spirits also of the Kinderhaus inmates. They ask whether there is any prospect if they are lazy to be the sooner sent away from the Home and try to grieve the Meuret's by showing how little they like to stay in the institution. Of course these things are only temporary, F. and P. have both joined in such things but behave better the last fortnight and appear now to be sorry for this exhibition of ill temper

Now farewell I wish you plenty joy and an abiding one!
 Your P.
