<Revd. Dr. H. Gundert, Missionshaus, Basel, Switzerland, Vi… Bombay and France>1

 Calicut Oct 31. <59>*
Dear Papa

On the 20th I have sent you my last in which I said it would not have been possible for me to go to the hills. Now it is possible. Fritz has come back I have not felt so well of late troubled with blind boils since six weeks and they increase beside I feel uneasy about Marie! so I go. Convert who has leave for a month will kindly accompany me the way of Sispara, we set out D V this evening and hope to reach Kaity Thursday. I have felt uneasy about Marie and therefore made up my mind to go. For some time after her arrival there she wrote in every letter I am not very well, but never mentioned what it was at last I felt anxious and Mrs Stanes who heard of my being troubled wrote at once to me both of them Mr and Mrs. S. assured me that it was all right with Marie, She had been troubled with diarrhea: but now all was well. They are extremely kind to Marie and she prefers to be there rather than at Kaity; but now that I shall be at Kaity she will come I trust. I send you the last letter I had from her, an answer to one of mine when I was much troubled about her. You can see how deep the poison has sank in her. I wrote in answer, that there was no occasion for her to become a Martir her whole life for the sake of a man with whom she is not certain that she would be so happy as she imagined. I would not have though her so deeply affected and for such a long time. I truly wish she could become engaged to one of the brether; for only then I fancy she would get rid of the old story.

Fritz is looking nicely; but he is not yet settled to go home or not. if he goes I shall D.V. return before their going. Mrs Moegling very poorly. Miss Deuble is with her and will come here afterward untill things be settled. The day the Garthwaite left, before even they had gone, came a large family from Bombay recomended by Mr Bennet; so for two days we had 10 strangers in the house. Mr and Mrs Mallaly with their 5 boys are nice people, he has been 34 years in Bom Storekeeper of the Indian Navy, he with the elder son have gone to the hills where the son is to become a planter. The lady with the remaining family lives in our Bangalow, she makes her own food so we have no troble with them she is a real and nice lady. She will help Fritz for the preparation of the outfit of his children: of which I am very glad it makes it easy for me to go, they are to be still two or three weeks here, he went with the son to buy a state for him. Today we have the Lord supp Here all is as usual. I am glad to have Ann Subaya who takes the charge of school. She is able to do it nicely for the time. Now dear papa I have no more time excuse me with our dear sons big and small I have no leasure. A tender kiss to each specially to Freddy Paul David. perhaps you will keep Maries letter without her knowing of it
 Yours aff J Gund
