7 Bomb. 23 Apr <59>*

My dear wife

Yesterday Goodfriday. I had to preach in Tamil and found some 30 people assembled in the Moncy School, built on the site of Isenb's former house. Very high hall, which together with the rolling of carriages along the road made the speaking rather difficult, however I felt drawn towards the people which made the task easy. Spoke about the 2 words of our Lord from the cross (Luk 23) One very general "father forgive them" one very particular "Today thou" - Invited all with the first and promised them something like the 2d if they repent believe and confess like the thief on the cross. Had something for myself which I wanted after all the turmoil, and many shortcomings in prayer and in confessing my Lord. Stanger's tried for an American ship, but got a No - another is to be talked to. I think they are resigned to the passage round the Cape esp. as she was only 2 days sick on board the Pattimar. Their children are nice and I think the Lord has something in store for the parents be it only on account of the little ones. They seem to have received much love at Dharw and are thankful for it. Mrs Kaufm. has much to do with serving others, so she does not yet understand any thing in Can. not even of the Sunday services. Possibly she may now find a more quiet time for it. - Here I feel not quite at home, I may be wrong but I think Isenb's getting older makes them rather retired and somewhat annoyed with the measure of hospitality continually expected of them. I was therefore really glad to have that arrowroot box for them. Also the candles are now very serviceable. - I had some things washed. Bedclothes etc I shall leave here for my return: I must even take out some of these in order to make room for what Isenberg's and Deimler's (who are at Nasik) want me to take home to relations and friends. For nobody considers how much two trunks will hold. Perhaps something may be stowed away in Percy's box, who at all events will have to carry Camerer's old stick for his relations. Now I wait for Glasson to accompany me to Butcher's Island where we are to pass Easter with the Mitcheson's. I like M. he is very open and shows all manner of confidence as regards the charge of his son. The latter also is affectionate and full of his boats sails fishing hooks etc. He wanted by all means to have Glasson's pistol for a shot from the British hotel against the roofs beneath how the tiles would rattle! When I spoke to him about Christ's passion this week he quickly changed the conversation. Now may the Lord be with you and give you a happy Sabbath and resurrection day! With love to all
 Your HGdt
