 Stuttg 14 June 1859.
My dear wife and Marie

I wrote only last week but will also try to send you something by way of Bombay, in case some letter should have miscarried. Every day has of course its own story and I can best relate it by following my short notes. On the 6th Emma took courage to come to me about her heart, which she thinks to be bad enough but feels that she might yet think worse of it. I was very glad to find her so open and full of confidence and we separated with prayer (She does not think of herself what Marie thought - that she was converted already). On the 7th I visited Esslingen, went first to the Dean's house as well known from 1846 and saw Knapp, uncle's successor and a very nice friend. Then to Dr Steudel and Bertha. Kind reception only Selma was in such pain (ulcer in stomach?) that she would hardly make herself understood. She allowed me however to speak and pray with her. She could have wished the prayer had been that she might depart today; but when I saw her today she was so much better that I can no more guess her death far or near, for I certainly had fancied it very near. It is an inconceivable state, the more I think of it. Returning I met Rümelin in the street - a former friend, now head of the Dept of Church and School. He recognized and invited me so kindly that I had to go next day, I saw also the order he had from the Pope (Virtuti et merito) and heard his explanation as if he merely finished what his predecessor had left almost accomplished - but I felt in this and other matters that he was somewhat afraid of stating what might be communicated through me to others. I asked after his faith. He thought he had become more religious though not more positive (believing). The two Steudels also visited me and took me to their brother in law Dettinger who was very cordial. Also the Biblehouse received today (8) my first visit: but there were so many friends assembled that I felt strange in the wellknown rooms. 9 June. I drink now Goeppinger water every morning and take a walk. Dined with Kapff and saw Knapp, the 2 most evangelical ministers of the Capital. Kapff related of his eldest son who has been in England for some time and has sundry scruples agst the National Church so that his entrance into the Mission is not improbable. I saw the young man afterwds at Tübingen and liked him, though of course I did not try to influence his choice. I liked him much and was glad to see influences at work which are something new in our University. The 10th was the day of my Tübingen trip. I lived with Dr Oehler in order to be near Ernst He had come to meet me at the Post but had been driven aside by a mighty rain by which I was induced to descend near the hotel, in order to let the worst pass before I ventured with my new hat through the streets. Oehler received me with a solemn dinner, in consequence of this being his birthday. I ate enough of roast almonds that day and the 2 next I can assure you - lived quite in grand style with the Ephorus of my old Stift. Ernst very hearty, but not open though he wished to be so. His religion all in the head, he doubts my experiences of a personal communion with the Savior. I did therefore but little in the way of direct discussion. His time is not come. Mrs Steudel and Moegling's mother were the best visits I made: saw Martha Mögl but not Johannes who was just absent. 12th Pentecost, heard an orthodox sermon which left me very cool and drank in the afternoon Coffee with the Sanscrit Professor. Visited our old Students' meeting with Repetent Kapff - the young Pietists are very little mocked or disliked by the world and show more want of decision than seems to have been the case in our times. But I can hardly judge from the little I saw. 13th went to Nürtingen with Deaconry Pressel, whom I had once taught the elements of French. He had since spent 5 years at Paris and received some new life there in connexion with French Protestants. His communications were interesting. Uncle Ensslin at Nürtingen is very much bowed down by the loss of his wife (Beate + 21 May): very open to all spiritual encouragement, but apparently little progressing in spiritual knowledge and power. His Heinrich very happy with the young wife Rickele. Here I had a good deal to preach - as H confessed his doubts of the truth of the atonement etc. He heard me very attentively and I hope something of him after a little acquaintance with suffering, of which as yet he knows nothing. His wife looks nice, but insignificant. She assents to all as if she shared my faith, but may only try to keep out of the fire, which he meets unflinchingly. Returned to day by way of Esslingen where I met Selma much more cheerful than I could have expected.

Very nice letters from Basle were waiting for me. David quite in a fever of love, wrote 5 letters in five days, addresses me Sie in order to show his reverence, and as he wanted to write very modestly of himself he put instead of I meine Wenigkeit, which he construed in the first person. He is overflowing in terms of affection, has wept after me, is now the 3d in his class, reports of Frederick that he is plus brave than he was and tries by all means to rejoice our hearts. let them then rejoice - it is from the Lord! Now farewell

To buy for Mr Christ 2 mats of fine quality 3* yards long and 2 broad: a third mat 2 yards long and 3/4 yard broad. The price ought not to be too low send through Pfleiderer
