2 Calicut, no Carnac
 off Coomptah 14 Apr 59
My dear wife

Yesterday at Mang I gave a letter to the post drank Coffee at Hauff's - had 2 hot pulls from and to the ship rather reddened my hands - but not the worse for it. Some treasure was taken on board I had 3 hours on shore, mounted to the upper story that is buildg. Hauff's rather taken aback because Hoch had shown him what I had written on the subject of his wishing old Ministers for Missionaries. Hunz full of glee, heard just from his fianc‚e, thinks I shall meet her at Bale and gives me a note for her. Mrs Hoch and children well at Mercara. Stanger's expected to come on board this steamer within an hour or two. I wonder how it will all turn out. Binny very sick goes home via Madras. We hear strange stories from Bengal and the mutiny. Mrs Harrison's nurse is a Lucknow woman, that is, her husband a soldier during the siege was shot, her child died, she is at nights sometimes excited and cries out - save the child, there goes the mine. The women had been placed over a store of gun-powder to be set fire to when the enemy should have forced his way into the entrenchment. Harrison very nice: says that John Lawrence with all his Christian profession is an unprincipled man, who sacrifices any thing and any man to his own will. Though the Savior of India - he seems not to have the real Savior, whilst his brother must have been a delightful Christian. Very many conversions took place in consequence of the trial, consequent upon the mutinees. Hebich spoke to that Lucknow woman, but she only laughed at him, being quite sure to be saved by her saints. (She is Irish) Now farewell. It is not much I write - for the hand being sunburnt moves with difficulty. With love to all  your HG.
