Miss Gundert, care of W. Stanes Esqr, Coonoor, Stamped

 Calicut 26 Oct <1859.>*
My dearest Marie

On the 22d I recieved two letters for which many thanks the one for Mr N. I will have read to me by Mr F and if it does not do I will write in French for you to Copy. In yours of the 19th you tell me to be quiet about you all right I cannot well till I get one about my last of the 22d

Mrs Bean sends you much love, she has asked me for a german book of yours to read with Mrs Kunig who is with her for a fourtnight.

Our visitors or guests have begged me to let them make their food, they live in the little bangalo, and in the little room of the children near Mr. Fritz, whether Fritz will allow it when he comes I do not know. they cook in our woodroom.

Apropos Mrs Lawson cannot come down so soon for Mr Bennet who is to meet them here is in charge of this Mallaly business till he returns that is store keeper of the Indian Nava, they will not reach Bombay before the end of Nov. Whether Mrs Ross is happy I do not know they had to separat from each other two days after their marriage; for he had to go to Coilon in a great hurry where he is to stay for two month; She is with Mrs Frere she wrote to Mrs. B that she is happy! Would you like to be like Mrs Grant former Miss Coffin? Did I tell you that Mrs Buhrer has a boy. Mr Huber from Hubli I like very well so do I Mr Burkhardt. the former has a sickness probably incurable "retrecisement des intestins"

I fancy the Lord has in store some trials for me; may I be kept in faith with out fear for with me fear is worse than any evil. It comforts me to know the Lord knows what is fear and is able to help me out of it and preserve me from it!

I regrette, not to have told you to addres the report to Papa as he is in Bale now He might have said what he thought of it

Sunday I did not write and yesterday Mr Fritz' comming has made me to forget all about you letter or sending to you this, my last was so lamentable that I should have written afterward. However I will not write many more letters to you; for Mr C has offerd one to take me to Kaity. So it may be next week I shall set out the way of Sispara. I have been so nervous and so hot so sleepless that I want a change I will have a good deal to do till that. so perhaps I shall write but one or twice till I leave 
Adieu dear Marie love to all your dear friends
 Yours aff J. Gundert

Fritz is very well, so is Adele.
