 Coonoor 4th-7th December <59>*
Dear papa

Yesterday our letters went off. Today went to two meetings first in The FitzGeral<d's>* where Moerike who lives there gave us a nice exhortation on the 11th of the Hebr about Enoch who walk with God, afterward in Mrs Lawson Strobel had prayer while Capt Harkness read a sermon, for St had not been permitted to speak being not quite well in his stomack. The Chaplain has asked Orme to officiate during his absance, this has grieved our Dr L. so much that he seems to have made up his mind to give up church till a truly pious minister comes. Dear Dr he has much to do for our party, and he does it so joyfully. The Beutlers have come up yesterday, instead of going to the Bangalow they just fall on poor Mrs Hoch untill they go to Ootti where they are to live. Happily the Dr said that Mrs Strobel is too weak to take them in so we have escaped: I have house keeping for us four; but it is difficult to get anything here. I like Mrs. Lawson indeed and I like Strobel too he is a fine soul, with the heart right full of life and zeal, Yesterday I went to the weekly meeting in Mrs Ls house our next neighbour. Half past four we sisters together that is Mrs Hoch, Diez, Lawson, Benet, Marie and me. a blessed time indeed. at half pas six in the same house again we met for tea the Strobels, Harckness Sometime there are more people. The woodfalls Young Stanes. On Wednesday is a meeting at the FitzGerald's On Friday evening tea and meeting at Capt Harkness. I thank the Lord to have brought me to this place for body and soul I am truly refreshed, it was the very right time to come, it is so nice, cool the sun shining. The Lord is very good to me in giving this time of rest I value it greatly and injoy it with thanks giving. I live as much as possible on vegetable and fruit when I can get. I keep house keeping for us four. In a few days Mrs Casie* is to join for in expectation of the confinement of Mrs St The morning early I take a cold bath drink a tumbler of water with a plantain and take a walk

I hear that Fritz and Irion were not in favour of these meetings finding fault with St. The Dr is very nice, he sends you love, said that he had got a lesson from you at Cochin, he comes here every day he hopes you will come back round the cape! The little Diez is better, they will go to Kaity when the Moerikes return to their home. Strobel is anxious to return to Paulghot; but he will scarcely be able to go before the end of January on account of his wife.

This time I have nothing for the dear sons, they will excuse me as I wrote but a few days ago I send them hearty love and kisses. From Fritz we hear often he prepares to go home. I felt sorry for Pauline <Mögl>* that the Comm did no give leave to go home; for she requires it more than any one. How ever she will go, if she lives so long. We have all confidence that if the Commity knew her state she would allow her to go. Mrs Hoch has now ten tailors at work! the work alone will certainly cost her more than the allowance of the whole outfit! A tailor cost 8 as per day. We read just now the evenings The revival in America. Oh may we see similar blessings here, the land would soon be coverd with faithful missionaries from the natives. 
Now with love to all
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert.

P.S. Fran‡ois wrote me evidently afraid - he says that our consciences are to lead us and if we fancy ourselves better than others we are directly opposed to Christ's religion etc May God give you words of life for him and to him ears.
