 Dizenb. 27 Aug 59
My dear wife

Of the last week I have but little to relate. I preached to about 8 guests last Sunday and shall have a less number tomorrow, for our circle diminishes daily. Dr Zeller appears to be the only medical man that sends guests to this well. This morning my most faithful compagnon Pf. Hoffmann left me. Marie may have known of him when at U Ensingen, where he made Reinh's acquaintance. He likes him much and tries to make sure of grace before his end. His housekeeper is a pious lady. Instead of her an elderly Miss Clausnitzer is now the person that understands me best. She would have preferred the Pfarrhaus at Maichingen to this bath, but obeyed the Dr. Laments her slow progress in Michelian manner, and is truly humble and poor in Spirit. On the 22d I went to Gosbach 1/2 hour from this to drink Coffee there and was to my surprise found out there by Wezel from Boll with a young Curate. They will D.V. repeat their visit. Other guests have once paid a visit to Boll which is near enough and attracts me: but the news are that the house is a palace, everything wonderfully arranged, Crinoline accepted etc. W. thought such was not the atmosphere for wonders and I think so too in a manner. Immense sums are spent and received and Blumh might become rich if he liked it. Every body is charmed by his affable manner, and the word preached is certainly powerful. Bl. seems still to hope for a particular gift to enable him to do something before the last times. Whether this be true I cannot see as I have it not from him in person. One of the visitors remarked that the Arg Fromme are there, of which I was glad after the glowing description of the charms of the place (compared with which ours is a den) - Paul Mohl, the son of + Adolph has not been received into the seminary at Maulbronn which will be a grief to the family. He is a fine lad and seemed to have the best prospects. I know nothing of any ladies leaving Bale for India. If they should go I might try and see them before they start from Würtbg. About the 5th of Sept I hope to be again at Stuttg. I do not feel radically better, but the complaint is less constant than it was during the vacation of the boys. It was a hot summer, and good wine is expected, with very little fruit for cider. Francis is expected in Sept, and I am anxious to meet him. His wife may be superior to Frederick's. 
Now farewell The Lord be with you and all the brethren
 Your HG
