 Kaity 1 Dece <59>*
Dear Papa

Yours of the 9th Oct came in hand on the 16*th No for which thanks. May the Lord make you soon well and strong for His work. Herre is sick unable to do the work in school, distressed about the building which cannot be finished for want of money, not even has he enough to pay his school masters the house is the cause of his being ill etc. it is good Irion is soon going down. Strobel not well as yet his back still paining, the Dr says he has a consomption and will not be able to bear the low country. In the papers was the death of Colo. Law's daughter a girl of 12 yrs the fire took to her dress and burnt her! The letters of the dear little ones written with the english letters gave me real joy I could read them and understand every thing. I wish Samuel would do the same.

So far I wrote at Kaity Now we are at Coonoor with Mr Stanes for a few days after which we go D.V. to live with the Strobels in Cap Haultains house. Yours of the 13th Oct from Stutgart came on the 19th. Herman writes that he sees you suffering and would so much like to help and comfort you; but he does not know how to do it being still perhaps some what afraid of you. You wear a wet band you say. so the complaint is still on you. Dear papa is there inflamation? as it was here, is there blood? Patience requires a perfet work. May we both have grace to understand, waite with faith and patience on our good Lord!

I have seen Webster whom they say is going on well, he is to marry again a nice young Eastindian woman, his son is in Banga gets 70 Rs per month, Mage well off too according to the world! Major and Mrs. Dobbie took breackfast here on the 24th being on their way to Bangalore, they are fine people indeed, she works very diligently some little works to get a few Rs for the help of the Moonlight work; she told me that last year no less than 800 poor creatures had been rescued from their evil ways.

Dear Mr Moerike is in Capt Fitzgeral's house where Dr L visits him. I saw him yesterday, after he had been crying for pains, she weeping; for every time that the costick is put inside of the wound he screams for pain, the boil or abces he suffers from appears to have began from a cold sitting one day in a bargers* village on the wet or damp grown, His caugh is still going on. they hope to go to live with the Strobels too where they would feel more at home than with the FitzG. who is not converted though he has meetings in his house! She is right it seems but troubled about him who will perhaps have to go to China with the regiment; she performs the morning and evening prayers! Either too the Hoch, Strobels and Diezes have been in the same house; but they are glad to separate now. The Dr does not allow the Diezes to go to Kaity till Dec as they intended; their baby is very poorly with diarrhea; and she expects an adition in her great weakness, Yesterday she was faint for half an hour. Samele is a strong boy; but can not leave except under his mama's peticoats and he does not obey her even. Ann is stout though not strong. If I have not told you about Strobels fall it is first that I did not know it and when I knew it I thought you had heard of it by Fritz, who was then on the hills.

Give us please as much news as you can about dear Hebich, here people are asking. our people say that he was very diffrent from formerly less power not only bodily; but also spiritually; however Mrs. Dobbie says she did not percieve it; but was as ever much edified revived by his preaching. Fritz is going home if he can get a cabin, his Sara has suffered from convulsions. Mrs. Groves paid us a visit she is nice, They say that Henry and Franck are very nice too. Only the Stanes do not like them; but whom do they like? or about whom is not some evil discovered

I wish you would have spent some weeks with the Blumart at Bol and I wish my brother would have gone too. God has given him a gift which one ought to regard! If you are not better do go there.

I have seen Mrs Lawson in passing by I trust to injoy her after ward when we are with the Strobel as we shall be very near each other. The Strobels are delighted to be in their own house. Yesterday I helped them to move from the Hoch. She expects her confine in a fortnight, she is weak and thin he looks well and hopes to go down at the end of January Hoch trust to be here on the 15 De and leave with family on the 27th by Sisapara and be at Calicut on the first. Fritz is at last decided to go, his Sarah has been ill with convulsions. Moerike is I hear some what better, only the cough going on. The Irions go down today.

I feel lowspirited about your health and some times fears, as if perhaps you would not be able to return to India. I must look above from were comes comfort. The Ship will not touche at Calicut which is a comfort, she will take a party at Mangalore and the rest at Cana. Marie is getting some flesh and rosy cheeks, she is very nice with me and I trust the Lord is doing His work in her. Mrs Ward was here yesterday she is nice she suffers of the spine complaints and is oblige to lie a good deal. She waits anxiously for her daughter who is to come out in 14 month. She is a fine child who love the Lord, one of her son is idle in learning and in every thing. 
When the Lord bring you back bring a black silk dress for Marie 