 Dizenbach 20 Aug 59
My dear wife

Once again from this waterplace after I have on a visit at Stuttg received your letter of ...1 June (You ought to write the date when you begin the letter, or you forget at last to put one). I am glad you have received so early the news of my safe arrival as it will have removed from you various apprehensions and must have shown that the Lord smiles kindly on this our temporary separation. Your news of Garthw. pretty much as I expected. Mrs West may now have a new time of grace offered, as one illusion after the other is exploded. I am glad for Miss Will, remember me to her when you write. Bührer's I hear have been here 2 years ago with Esther, but I can only hear of their names. You tell nothing of Indian news, except the wreck of the steamer. Here is absolute dearth of such things. the meeting of the Madr Fusiliers is most indistinctly hinted at. Has there been anything like an outbreak? Who has been drowned in the Pownah? Perhaps Lewis or Williams? Not that you need make inquiries: but write what one just hears about it. 
Sunday 14th all went to the RC Church for the sermon: so I followed and heard about the Church patron St Laurence, how he served as deacon and how he died. Very strange mixture. At dinner I therefore proposed to have an evangelical service, however modest: and as the 2 older padres refused I preached on the text of the morning Jo. XII,24 etc how we are to serve and to die taking our example and strength from our great deacon and faithful witness J.C. I had about 20 hearers, and felt at least strengthened on my part. I became known in consequence and have since had talks with different guests. - On the 16th I went to Stuttg for a meeting with the padres of my age; we met on the 17th to the number of 16, of whom about half are believers. The others were partly queer people, one Kurz whom Herm. once visited a writer of novels and editor of newspapers, the other Fink a writer and translator of lower stamp and quite Frenchified. It lasted rather too long for me, and curious recollections rose up of old days and childish doings. - Then I saw of course our good people and had a few nice hours with them. One at Vike's with Mrs Kern was interesting as she returned from Staefa and told us of the Trudel, that Christian demoiselle who heals by prayer, teaches and guides many persons to lead them to perfection. It is a curious mixture, with dangerous elements, but certainly respectable thro' an entireness in all she does or attempts. Her followers make of course a 2d Messiah of her. On the 18th I returned to my bath, and found the guests somewhat diminished. It is extremely quiet here, some persons certainly desire the truth and as there is little noise or amusement, opportunity is offered to discuss the most important questions leisurely. An old minister Hoffmann is very attentive, though now and then queer with his hypochondriacal manners. One lady speaks like a Christian and makes a good impression. Others more ignorant and distant are at least not averse to have a talk. May the Lord make me faithful to them: and first to Himself, for I often find my heart astray, readier to bring in Missionsubjects, than His adorable person. Now farewell once more and Grace be with you  Your HG
