<"Darstellung des Lebens und der Lehre Luthers 2 bis 3mal Rep Dr. d. Ph. Gundert" in Mercur>1 <(vgl Vs Brief v. 9. Sept)>2

 Calicut 28th June [1859]
My dear Sons Herman, Samuel.

Your last of May has given joy I thank you that you will continue to write also during papa's absence from here. I thank the Lord for the happy meeting you had with dear papa: May you have grace to receive instruction and blessings through him. Opened ears dear boys is a great gift from God: many perish and hunger for want of hearing. These days I read James be swift to hear, slow to speak slow to wroth". Alas I am still very back ward in this! hearing is a fine gift, ask for it.

You trust the Lord has kept us Marie and I during papa's absence indeed we have a faithful father, and I have felt much of His love and presence since we are alone. He has also kept us in health and given me grace to experience that daily strength and power is to be got from His fulness. Oh my dear sons: to be children of God what a great grace is that to feed on the word of life what a privilege. No good thing is wanted to him who makes the Lord his portion. He is my portion a fine table is covered before me my path is near the clean water and green grass. May you abide in Him fully you shall find that He is all in all. all is possible to God and to him that believeth Do you believe it? Act accordingly. May you and I know what is that to pray without ceasing. Dear sons Marie I suppose gives you news; as for me I care little for them. Pardon my writing so shortly; but you know already that when my new and old story is told I have no storis 
Adieu beloved sons
 Yours affetly J. Gundert
