<Dr. H. Gundert, Mangalore, Stamped>1

 Calicut 24th Janua <59>*
Dear Papa

Yours of the 21 came just now for which many thanks. You are not well, you say and by Mr Moerike's letter to her I hear also that you are not well; but no one says what is the matter. Is it the old complaint Shall I come to care a little for you? Shall I send the Horse? About Mr Fritz Mr Hauff wrote he was than better however we feel anxious about him too. 
When Fennell sends the bull he must know that it will cost 1 or 2 Rs for landing here for which he is to pay too - Is there much cholera at Mang? Dear Gompertz I also in reading his letter thought it was like an Adieu; May we be as faithful as he is than death shall be but joy! I am glad to hear Jennings comes near. Dear papa tell all how it is with you, if only there was a telegraph from Mang. Where do you live? Moerike with the Hochs Fritz with the Hauff Hebich in small B. you were? near your old friends. My love to them all Here all as usuall at the exception of a little fever with two girls all are well, in the town there is some cholera they say. I hope dear Capt Taylor will have fine time with dear Hebich. It is right you gave David clothes to Mrs Hoch the rest shall go to Samely D. I suppose ore any one the little Moerike is indeed a very fine boy almost too good to live his stomach is out of order. Mrs I. writes that she is very tired she likes Mrs Herre much Now dear papa with love Y. J.G.

A Civilian Mr Boswel neveu of our dear Major and of Mr Chatfield has dined with us to day, he will probably see you at Mangalore where he goes by the steamer which is going to Cochin. He lives in Mr Cooks house at least he goes there this evening to wait for the steamer. he went to all the places begining by the Chapel finishing by the girls school. He had the letter from Mr Hebichs invitation to Cannanore, Abraham brought 345 Rs 15 As 110 I gave to C 2.3.5. I kept. I long to hear farther news about your health and Fritz.



1My dearly beloved papa!

I am very sorry about your being not well. Oh please do take care not to trouble yourself too much and not to overwork yourself. - Many thanks for your kind few lines. I am indeed rejoiced to hear that Miss Chatfield had a talk with you. She is a nice and kind young lady oh! I wish to see her happy and she cannot be so, except when she has once found Jesus crucified. 

Mr Boswell spoke about her and expressed his fear, that her father would be perhaps a hindrance to her becoming a real child of God. Well, I trust the Lord will do more, than we can see and think and hope. - It struck me what you said about dear Mr Gz's letter. So we had all together the same thought! -

Oh Papa dear! I shall be so glad to have you back again. I am so very foolish and feel often so dreadfully sad and cast down I know what is the matter, I have no Love. For my-self I have only too much Love but none for others and very very little for my dear Lord and precious Saviour! - Pray also for me.

With a hearty kiss
 Your affectionate Marie

The old Sahrah _____ sends you plenty _______s also to Mr Fritz she has plenty _________ and _____ as usually! -
