 Coonoor Dec 9th to 16th <59>*
Dear Papa

Yesterday the 8th Moerike spent the day with us he is better; but still applies costick in the wound made by opening the abces. the cough is not worse, He is a fine soul, we were all thankful to have him with us. What he has learnt in affliction profits to others we all took tea with dear Mrs Lawson Capt Harkness was also appearently much edified by Moerike. Heitherto he has attended only the meeting which is in the FitzG house where one read and pray without adding any word; but we trust in future he will be able to come in the Drs chair to the other meetings. he is also allowed to go once or twice a week in the villages to preach to the bargors. the Dr lends him his Tonjou. I have just a note from Mrs Grant sending you christian love and best thanks for the Harmonium. she asks to whom the money is to be paid. I suppose to the Calicut Mission is it not? Strobel is again able to ride, this morning he went to Thom Stanes who has not been out for a long time having had to pull out three teeth at once, he got fever from the intense pain. he is now better and has promised to pay us a visit. If he could could take our likneness we would send them by Fritz who also wishes to have them; but I do not feel free to ask Thom. Today Marie is at Ootty where she went two days ago with Miss Scuddar. Mrs Shafter died from drinking they say, she was seldome sobre, so given to brandy that even at church people felt and smelt it! The Beutlers came to Kaity where they have spent 4 days with Wirtele, She has a miserable look, their children every where spoken of as the worse children, no one will allow their own children to stay with poor Bs ones he looks sad. they live at Ootty. he did not come to the meetings here, She has a bad name every where. Metz lives here with Mr Orme untill he goes down, Only think of poor Orm having a meeting daily with the soldiers with their children. What can he give them? 
9th we took tea with Capt Harkness where the meeting was we were few nothing particular; 10th dined with Dr L. <Leslie>* their little girl we saw at Cochin is very nice speaks often as an old woman from being alone probably they have good news of the three at home. one of them love the Lord, Dr Colebrock lives with them. he is threatened to become blind though perhaps not 30 years of Age, he is a believer. Thom Stanes just hapened to pay them a visit and stayed for dinar too, with him I found easy to enter in a profitable conversation Dr and Mrs L though nice and kind people do not come too far or rather so close as to give confidence to speak what the heart would desire. They have again gone to hear the Chaplain, christians here are much priviledge for communion and help of the Dr. who does most devotedly all he can. 11th Today at the meeting I met Franck Groves who stood before me asking do you know me. I would not have recognised him, he has promised me a visit for to morrow.

The congregation was large, among them also Mrs R Dobbie she does not look nice at all. Col. Woodfal is nice, she is distressed about her father of whom they have heard the sudden death he was not a believer this causes her trouble, they expect likewise to hear of her mother's death in the same condition as the father. she Mrs W seemes to be stired up by these news. Miss Hale is at Mercare with her other niece. All the people here ask after you and send you much love. Today is very damp and rainy! I feel much better than at Calicut. for the last monthes I had become very stout and uncomfortable; but now I feel myself again. I hope there will be no necessity of our returning to Calicut before the end of January The ship is to land at M and Cananore, so they will have no trouble at Calicut. Convert had begged me to try to be there at Fritz departure; but the expense and trouble of comin here is worth staying three month, considering also we have a house free.

12th Franck G. came he has much of his fathers likeness, is nice, hears every mail from Mrs. Groves who has, he says much to do in B.<ristol>* M Muller has finished the bulding for the 1000 orphens. Henry has seen much of the revival in America, is still full of it, much refreshed by it. Edoward nice and lively. As we were speaking of West* I said, if he had had an other wife things might be very diffent, he than with a sad look said Ah yes those wives how do they trouble one! He will come up in January with his wife and children at Ootti she is still the same I am told. As he was with the FitzGeral we were invited invited to meet him at diner after which he went to Ootty. he sees often Major Holiday he is not strong, they have 4 children with them and three at home. After the dinar I pressed dear Moerike to come to the meeting at Mrs. L. our gardner with others brought him in a chair. After ward the FitzG came too for the first time He is an ampty man, she seems to be a fine soul. I will try to get Moerike to all our meetings if possible, as long as he is here, he has learned so much from the Lord that it does good to hear him. The Dr does not come to them. I will try to go to Jacatala where Mr Clarck preaches the truth they say 100 soldiers meet daily, a Sunday school under Thom St is going on well 50 soldiers attend it, of late. the three parties have met together for prayer and preaching, Church people Weslyans, dissenters. is it not a great step? The romans have got over three of the soldiers a french padri is doing all he can to drow people; En revenge three Romans have joined the protestants. One hopes the union of the three denomination will prove useful also against the romans. 19 No sisters meeting as Mr Benet s father came from Cochin quite unexpected rather to the disatisfaction of the two Ladies it appears.

14th The two Miss Philip who were with the Robinson came to see us, quite tender and affectionate. Mrs Robinson is going home so the three Miss P. came to live on the hills at Ooti. they have come for a few days here with Col Rears lady in Arbuthnot house. After noon came yours of the 2 N. for which thanks. I regrette you have not tryed to stay some weeks with Mr Blumhart at Boll Do try to put yourself under Him and see what the Lord will do. Are we not to recongnise the gift given him by God and learn what may be His will. The Moerikes are permitted to return to Kaity next week to their great joy. the Diezes will follow them and then the Hoch will spend Christmas there with them and go their way to Calicut by Sisapara. Hoch is expected this evening. with Mack and George Kolb who is to marry (if she consent after sight) one of old good Mr Hallock's daughter.

Moerike is truly thankful and hapy to have Virtele with him, he is a real help, he has asked home for a wife I hear. You may have an army of them to come out if God permit. Mrs. Young wrote from Madras they were expecting to hear from you, they wait for orders to comand a regiment not his own, for the Colonel wishes to keep it, Young will write to you soon she said: 
Moegling will accompany his wife to Cananore and quickly return they send you love
