 Basle 16 Dec 59
My dear wife

So you find it cold at Kaity What would you say of home! It is indeed cold, but I have a wonderful pelisse which protects me as never I have been protected in my life. Aunt Emma gave it me. After all I must say it is easier to keep off cold than to defend yourself against heat. Come and try it for yourself!

I never knew what your movements would be therefore continued to direct letters to you at Calicut. Now I hardly know what to do - but think it best not to change, as after all you may be back there by the time this arrives. - I fear Metz will not be restored within one year, nor will Mrs Weigle or Irion. - The boys wish to be excused, they have all plenty to do but are well and diligent, and Herm. at least gives his whole time to the tasks demanded of him. Fred. is much more contented with his studies and superiors than you would fancy: he loves young (Hubli) Müller above all other boys, whereat David sometimes takes fire and demands of him similar love for his real brothers.

Just now Barth writes (14 Dec) says he is content with my assent as far as it goes, hopes you will also consent, expects me with Josenhans about Epiphany, and wishes that I then choose a house for us. I wish you were already here to help me. You have a hard task before you, but the Lord will also know how to make it more easy for you. He will direct your resolutions.

I now and then try to remember what I may advise you about my things. The microscope you ought to sell for 35 Rs - The Revue des deux mondes altogether for about 25 Rs (It is chiefly at Mangalore). New books may be sold - pretty much for cost price - but all native works, every thing relating to India, also most English books (not however merely edifying works) I wish to keep. What ever the transport may cost. I have a right to demand it, as the books may hereafter yet do service.

Keep esp. all maps relating to India. But you may sell the Atlasses if you get anything for them. Next week I hope to write how you ought to come in case you determine to join me soon - perhaps to go round the Cape in a vessel that takes Coffee home in March would not be amiss. But this only if you have Company not you alone. You may also go overland, if otherwise you would be kept over the Monsoon. But I know not the exact sum the Comm. will give for this purpose. Be not anxious on the matter, take things as they come day by day, and be guided by the Lord. It will all come right. I know you have many difficulties but He will bring you out of them all. I do not know how to direct your resolutions. You have full power as you know to choose in any matter of difficulty. And I am sure that all will come right at last. The boys ask continually, get Mama to come this year. They have not heard from me about Calw. Inspector told them something which they did not understand. When they asked me I put them off - but on one point they are remarkably obstinate. They want their Mama to come to them in 1860. They even offer to contribute their offerings in Fcs and centimes for this purpose. Now Adieu - I can no more delay sending this lest it come a week too late. The Lord be with you both. Greet the brethren - also the natives, not to forget Rama whom you might recommend to Aldinger or so (?)  Your HG
