<Miss Gundert, Care of W. Stanes Esqre, Coonoor>* Stamped

 Calicut 4th Octb 59
Ma bien aimee Marie

Yours welcome of the first came yesterday evening. I trust you have made no stay at Cuddalore, it is no propre place, in these things D. ought to ask Luke who has been before or to people who know. First of all give my sincere and best thanks to Mr and Mrs Stanes for his very kind letter to me about you. I feel truly ashamed for so much cares and love to us who certainly do not deserve it the least. Well perhaps tomorrow you are with all those dear friends. may you also get riche blessing for your own soul. As yet no news from home we must wait one week longer. Mrs. Garth. wrote me a kind note of inquiries. He has gone with the Director to Palghaut Mrs Grant too very kind; but above all my Lord is very gracious and leaves me not as I would have well deserved, I have been sad and melancholy for some days; but He has made again His face to shine and given me faith and hope. All is right. People here as usual, Rachel pretty well. Boshart came only yesterday evening very tired having walked 14 miles

all the people here send you love and Salams give mine also to the D and all other friends, Mr Fritz children are well tell him with my thanks for his last note. Mrs Buhrer love to you, Hoch is soon going to Coonoor. From Mrs C. Muller love too commissions for mates, ivites me very kindly for a visit! Burcart is not coming before 2 weeks, Lydia wants to write you a letter! As tu aussi pri soins de ton estomac pendant le voyage, ne te neglige pas. Tell me the names of the people who attend Strobels meetings How is the Dr L for these meetings? After all here are letters! You may return mine by Fritz. Adieu dear child I have heard Samuel's and the little ones 
 Yours aff
 J Gundert

