<Soeben kommt das Telegram von B. Wir wissen nicht was es heißen soll: No accident even of Gurseedass kind happening>1

 Calicut 18th April <59>*
Dear Papa

Yesterday we got yours of Mangalore for which many thanks. I can scarcely imagine that this is to find you so far away. Now and then the thought that you are indeed gone and far and far a long time passes before me like a lightning some darkness wants to cleave to me; but the Lord is gracious and makes His Holy presence be mightyer than all other feelings waves rise roar; but the Lord who calmed the sea is the same and makes it easy. 
This morning at half past midnight our guests went away for the hills; they would have left last night; but as it was "Sabath" they waited till it had passed. The whole house was up for them except I who kept quiet in bed; but could not sleep for the heat was trimendous, nothing like it as yet! Both of our visitors made us to promise that we would pay them a visit at Coonoor. Yesterday came a letter from Major Carr very sorry about your ilness, does not know as yet where he shall be sent, he fancys that the hot season will bring some new troubles from the mutiniers!

Mrs Grant wrote a very kind note of sympathy about your departure, they have been confirmed for this place! Mr Garthwaite not yet here and no news about him; Guideon is going to Malapuram, with Jacob the late Catechist, who leaves his wife here with children. We are by Gods grace all well. I know of no news from no quarter

From Madras acknowledgement of your 410. In future Mr Pfleiderer shall receive communication of your affairs, interest of Miss Will and Blandford will be sent to him.

Yours through Mr Fritz just come in hand for which many thanks. Orders from Madras are waiting to your address still; but no successor (19th evening) 
Love to our dear boys I remembered Herman yesterday May our Lord hear the petitions in his behalf
 Yours J Gundert
