 <Coonoor>* Nov 28th 1859
My Dearest Samuel

Though I have nothing important I will write you a few lines, in this beautiful country. I have by me a water fall which is so new to me, this noise with mist which often covers our house while through I can see that the sun shines on the hills above us reminds me of our spiritual life. by faith we pierce through the dark clouds I want now specially to look above the dark cloud and see Gods face in his dispensation with regarding dear papa's health. If His Holy word and presence were not with me I would be greatly distressed; Glory to God that He is ever a very present help in time of need. Waite on Him is the word repeated to my soul continually waite opon God for He is a father yea a tender father. I injoe here rest and quietness. I hope I shall still stay 6 weeks or two month. I feel much better than I did during the last weeks at Calicut Dear Sami untill you can write me in English, do it in the way your little brothers did last time. it is such difference to read oneself or to have read the letters, I was yesterday in a meeting where I am told our dear papa preached often, people here would still like to have him. The room was filled. Irion Moerike, Strobel prayed by turn after the reading of a chapter. The love of Jesus shown in a preaching or in prayer is the only thing I enjoy. to know more of Jesus Oh what a precious thing. Papa has made in Malayalim an Harmony of the four Gospels with remarks this precious book beside the Bible is almost my only reading. To study Jesus to follow Him in His life and doings ought to be our chief object. One day we shall be like Him. How are we to strive to become daily already here like Him. with Paul know Christ in His sufferings in His death and afterward in His resurection. One with Him for ever Oh the depth of the love of Christ. for his body the church how little we realise this fulness Christ in all. Here how divided is that body how many ruptures, how many parties, how many backbitings how many divisions even in a small place and circle. Great evil to be lamented May we all strive for unity for true love for being as one body in Him our head. Yet a little while and He will come. Oh may we you six with us be taken up with Him and none left here to be hurt by the second death Adieu in Him
