 Mang 21 Jan 59

My dear wife

Yesterday I received your first letter with the Mspts - allright. Fennell will send the bull to Calicut. He is at present here. Würth arrived here Wednesday evening after walking all the distance. The Müller's by pattimar yesterday evening. The girl exclaimed when she saw me: Der hat bei uns barfuss gelaufen! - Of David I hear that when he arrived at Basle he would no more speak English. He still likes to sit on his bent legs - formerly on the table - now as this is forbidden on the ground. People seem to doubt very much whether Fritz does right in sending his children to his sister in law: they seemed well and contented at Basle, though of course they all liked holidays better than schoollife. I have not yet seen Fritz since Tuesday He is in the Dr's hands, much better now than he was. I am not very well and therefore abstain from walking out - perhaps I ought to have brought my horse as there are so many people and no conveyances besides what the 3 ladies want. Yesterday however I went to see Miss Chatfd who spoke her mind pretty freely, so I hope it was not useless what I answered. - David's clothes have come and will partly be sent in the box which brings your thread etc. Some shirts etc I gave to Mrs Hoch for her children. - Gomptz writes from Harihar. They had the Cholera in their last marches. Whole families swept away. Mrs Dixon it appears dying - called for G. who prayed with her. Also Mrs Walker in great danger, but joyful in the spirit. G. lives with Jennings who now listens attentively. G himself seems to write as one who sends a farewell before he is called away. Taylor very nice. James Woodf. I saw yesterday - a vain gentlemanly youth: he is to try Railway work. Mgl. expected tomorrow. Richter has humbled himself. 
 Your HG
