 Calicut 30th August 59
 <mit Beilage>*
Dear Papa

Your welcome of the 24th July came in hand on the 27th Aug. the one of the 9th has probaby gone to Calcuta as did the preceeding one you do well to write Malabar on the addres. Thank God for the good news about your health, about David having been saved by the feeble hand of Frederic, also thanks to God for the faith given to my brother and sisters. I trust to hear that our dear son Frederic is happy in the knowledge of his Saviour Many thanks for giving us so much news. Convert is very sorry for his parents not to have seen you, and hopes you will be able an other time to give them an hour as he trust it may be blessed for them. Rama thanks for your Salams and sends plenty in return. I think also there is some words outr‚e in the description of the work in Burma. Strenge to say it struckts me only afterward that in the whole book there is not much about the Saviour, Christ, much about labour, change work, donations from the converts; their Zeal; Pardon of sins faith does not shine so much as work.

The monsoon still going on so that pattimars can not come, poor people greatly distressed the rice cost more than five <5> Rs the mooda even one cannot get any. happily I have still for 3 weeks trusting by that time we shall get fresh supply.

On the 25th fire brock out in the lines the bugel awoke me the light from the fire I saw through my windows and felt much frightned as it looked so near Maries room. I than remembered a repeated prayer of yours. "Keep us from sudden fears" the fire was soon over as happily it had rained not long before. Mr E Thomas who had asked leave to go home is refused and appointed Deputy Director of revenue of states in Vynade. he will have much to do, and promises to help the Mission there will also employe christians as much as possible. We hope Elieser may find a good work under him. poor man the other day as he was going to Chombala he felt uneasy about his wicked wife and returned unexpected found her with a tear* the Butlar of Holloway, as they could not deney the act. he tear* returned with a knife threatening Elieser, he has now gone to Chombala much cast down; when he left one did not know as yet of Thomas appointement.

28th to day sunday poor Convert wipes as a baby, from grief about his boy I told you that there came a niar boy from the south. as he was sick some little difference were made for his food, the other boys Lauffer's 2* and weavers got jalous at him and have several times shown it the dear Emanuel Converts niar is it is true some what childish and complains easily. Yesterday he came weeping saying Noa has flagged him on inquiry they all said it was not true so Convert flagged his boy for the lie; afterward as he spoke with him he said this week I have been iltreaded three times and when I tell it you you also beat me I would have done well to hold my tongue rather than to be flagged unrightiously etc now they have fair play with me. This morning on farther inquiry, Noa has but toched him; but all the boys are so angry that they spoke of running away so for the present Convert will send his boy to Coilandy, for they cannot be together. From the Hills they write that they shall be most happy to get Marie for some time she may return with Mrs Hoch in January The Strobels well and happy. Irions well too, but she must keep quiet untill her time be over Fritz has written you he said, so you have news from that quarter. Pfleiderer will bring his bride or wife in december in Malabar. I am glad to hear my brother Fran‡ois is expected so that you shall see him; may you have grace for him as God gave you for dear Emma. I thought my poor brother was opposed to the truth. May God prepare the ground for the seed of life. Diez is good friend of Vedamootu borrowed money from him, he builds a Catechists house in the new place and a room of worship; they say he has made a high pulpit instead of the old which was going to pieces in his chapel. Now love to all and from all
 Yours J. Gundert

Converts boy has made peace with the others all is right again 



1Poor Bess has certainly a claim on me, so I am going to write her, According to Fritz last news, he will come in october and probably goes home. in that case I would have a little change while he is still here say go to Chombala for a few weeks, from which I might bring the baby; the difficulty is only now as the Vandy must leave this about the 20th of this month we shall perhaps have no answer as yet from you about Maries going! however I believe you will not be displeased at her going. The embarcation will take place here probably The Chaplain is also of party in that ship 
It is nearly six months you left how quickly the time pass. If you were to stay at home till the end of 60 you might perhaps bring out our sons and your health be intirely restored! Fritz is anxious to leave the station or rather anxious how it will be after him; but Convert is doing well. there are few young brethren who could perhaps do as well as he does, very diligent, teaching in the congregation and at school. Lauffer works much more than he did Samuel as usual, his wife very fine, the Mission increasing in number.
