Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Madras

 Stuttg 8 Aug 59
My dear Marie

Best thanks for yours of the 16th. I wonder you ta...1 <talk>* of war - and sending letters via Southh - whilst we have peace again and may send even this paper (11 Aug)* via Triest by the newly reopened Lloyd's ma...1 You see how much better God is than all our fears ...1 had already written in May how Emma is to be shut ...1 in a little room, to keep her from the french sold...1 etc etc and now our Würtbg heroes have already retur...1 from their campaign and reached their homesteads. Keep this for another time - never to care and be anxious before the time! - The Ceylonstamps have given great joy. It is nice of Stanes to think of the boys after his heavy loss. Ost's know nothing of Olga. When Mama writes to Carr or Gomptz, thanks also from me for their remembrance. Your copy of G's letter most welcome. I shall forward it to Deggeller. His boy very well. He perhaps destined to become a minister in the Caucasus' villages. But nothing determined (you will therefore keep silence about it - Lang's former congregation has asked for D.) D. showed me at Basle a letter of Schoch's brother wherein he abuses the Committee most awfully for placing his brother some degrees more South. I hope Sch. does not die from the change. - If the brides go in Sept I hope to send you some little memento's (Leichenpredigten etc) gathered here. You need not correct any more in the Magisterbuch as I have bought a new edition. Now farewell and the Lord be with you all. The boys are bathing, but left a Selam for you
 Your Pa
