Miss Gundert, care of W. Stanes Esqr., Coonoor, stamped

 Calicut 20th Oct [1859]
My precious dear child <Marie>*

Yesterday after I had sent off mine, there came two of yours for which many thanks, Now I also get yours of the 15th by which I see what is your complaint. You never told me before and I troubled myself so much with 100 thoughts thinking what could could be the matter with you. Tell me all about you else I fancy it much worse than it is. So you feel better. I thank the Lord for it and all the dear friends who are so kind to you. I feel amost as if Louise <Scudder>* was a second daughter to me because of her love to you. About going to Kaity I cannot say any if are not a burden to Mr and Mrs Stanes stay untill you feel it is time to move. The joy you have with L is a great help towards your getting well and forgetting the old things. The meetings you have also near are a blessing. However you must not offend dear Mrs Moerike go often over to spend a day with them. 
I pitty poor Mrs Coffin and thank the Lord I am not in her skin: poor Girl she may still run away some time afterward with an other. Give also thanks to the Lord that you are not in her stead We have all by grace pure grace if we are better off than others. Mr Diez has just arrived quite well and happy to rejoin his station. The crochet lace for Mrs Stanes are already at work I am truly glad, try to know any work she would like to get. With love to you all
 yours affectly
 J. Gundert

to day I get the addition of 5 people a Mr M Mallaly recomended by Mr Bennet your good neighbour Mr Mallaly has gone to bring them from the ship. Adieu I hope they are good people
