 <1859>*

1South Travancore (Neyattinkarei to Trav. frontier 40 Meilen off West und 15 Meilen ins Tinn. Gebiet 400,000 Nayer in Trav und 400,000 lowcastes, Shaner etc. 35000 Brahm 200,000 Syr und Rom Syr. 60000 Muh bs. Lebbeys. 1806 Ringeltaube - [18]10 in Tinnev. dann in Udayagiri (5 Miles von Neyur) [18]12 in Mayiladi taufte 700 Personen, geht 1816. Mead kam [18]18 <-_53> mit Knill, durch Munro grant von 5000 Rs an die Nagercoil Mission, etwa 3000 entsagten Heidenthum, weil Md eine Zeit lang Richter war. [18]19 <-_55> Mault schon ao 24 warens 48 Gemeinden. [18]27 Neyur 4 miles von Trav selbst* die westliche Station. [18]39 der erste Brahm bekehrt, predigt noch immer kühn das Evang. [18]38 Abbs etc, der in Parachaley 15 Miles w. von Neyur arbeitet - zus. 175 Gemeinden 14673 Christen.

South Tinnevelly CM. 18094 getauft 10058 Taufcand. populat. Brahm. 51,...2 Sudr 680...2 Shan 176...2 Pallar 145 Paria 71...2 Moor 76...2 Protest. 46...2 zus. 1,267,416

Madura 1,750,000 Miss. s. 1834 durch Todd, 1836 Poor und Dwight. [18]42 Miss. Seminar. Die Heiden Schulen aufgegeben 1855. Kaste 1847 July angegriffen "keinen Katech. anzunehmen, der nicht genügend beweist Kaste abgelegt zu haben und mit andern Christen essen zu können." viele Katech. verließen die Mission, das Seminar fast aufgehört, jetzt sind viele zurückgekehrt. Reinere Atmosphere. 134 Gemeinden 5327 Seelen*

Addis Coimbatur. seit 1830. Glieder 56 "2 years ago an inroad was made upon us by those who hold that the ordinances of the Christian Church are essentially of a saving nature, by which this mission was deprived of a considerable number who had thus been seduced."

Salem 1827 bei H Crisp gestorben 32. Walton 33-41. Lechler 40-61. jetzt 25 Communikanten

NArcot 1850 HM Scudder bereist NArcot, macht es zur Außenstation. 54 Velur, Chittoor, Arni neben Arcot. 54 Groves' Congregation 55 zog sich propag Soc von Vel und Chittur zurück, und gab ihre Kirchenglieder über Aussenstation Cunnur mit 130 Christen. seit 1857 Dutch Church Amer "verlangen <require> removal of Kuduni tuft of hair as one of the strongest links in the chain of caste." 5 Stationen und Kirchen 510 Christen und 7 Catechisten 
Madras L M 1804 Cran, Des Granges 1805 Loveless, 1811 Knill und Traveller. Kirche durch Drew gebildet in 1836, im Ganzen 350 Hindus getauft Persewakam Vorstadt Madr's. Zus. sinds 620 eingeborene Christen in der L Miss. von Madr (720,000 inhabitants, darunter etwa 70000 Muh)

J. Anderson Apr 37. Gen. Assembl Institut 38 Kastenkrieg wegen 2 paria Schülern 41 Rajagopal Venkalaramia, Ettirajulu. Taufen 139. Mädchenschule 
Amer. in Rajapuran und Chintadrepetta

Church Miss 4 Gemeinden mit 587 eingeborenen Christen

Malayal at Cottayam ein christliches college von der Rani endowed, nachdem es von einem rich Syrian Tharogan oder noble gebaut worden war. 16-38 union zw syr und engl Kirche +1 durch eine synod die der geizige bishop hielt (der nur gleich um Geld ordinirte und das Predigen der Missionare in Kirche verbot) gänzlich abgebrochen. Das Trav Gov. appointed an arbitration welche das endowment of the Syr College halbirte und Metran und C Miss. anwies. 1838 direct Miss wrk anzufangen, bes. von Peet in Mavelik. 41 Trich. 43 Pallam 49 Tiruwilla 53 Cunnanc. 55 hills 56 Coch. resumed.

Quilon 1822 Trev. 1838. adherents 1511 (getauft seit Anfang 200) 
Basel Mission Can. Mal. So Mahr. Nilag

Bangalor L M 1820. seit 22 Sam Flavel sehr activ, aber 1837 mußte canar Kirche aufgelöst werden Im Ganzen sind 523 Eingeborene getauft worden 
Bellary Hands 1810 (Flavel 27-47)

Belg nach vielen Jahren memorializing hat die Regierung verboten den shrine Yellama nackt zu besuchen

Wesl. Tamil Miss in Bang 1821. Canar 1833 Mysore hat 70000 Einwohner (darunter 12000 Brahm 7000 Muh) Bangal 150,000

Cadapa 1822 Howell* bis 1842 dann SPG. 1851 die Malas bes. in Paidala 40 Mil. NW von Cadap geben idolatry auf, dieses movement erstreckt sich 53 nach Karnul. Jetzt 701 Getaufte 215 Candid.

Pope In Madras the large congregation of Fabric and Rottler was much weakened by a secession a few years ago on acct of Caste. Mr Kremmer of the LS received the seceders, yielding every point for which our Missionrs contended. In a recent Tamil publication under Mr K's sanction I find the strange statement that by his labors the true doctrine of the Holy Euch. was first made known in Madr. and upon this they profess to place the grounds of their secession. In Tanjore kein Catech. angestellt der nicht mit allen seinen Brüdern essen will, was der Koch irgend einer Kaste gekocht hat.


Peet Die Syr heißen eggheaded ___________________ because they wear no ________

Telugu 14 Mill. Canar 7 Mill Mal 2800000

Tamil über 10 Mill

resolution "That considering the scandal which has been occasioned in the eyes of the heathen, and the injury inflicted generally on the Christian Church in So Ind by the interference of the Leipz Luth Miss[ionar]ies under Converts connected with other Missions of the Prot. Church, it is determined that a protest be drawn up by this conference and forwarded to the Committee and supporters of the L L M in Germany. Im Protest steht "Your Miss's appear to consider it their duty to receive any one from the Native congregations who professes to prefer their views on certain doctrinal subjects without any searching inquiry into the probable motions by which such persons may have been influenced, and it is believed that encouragement is thus give[n] to the discontented and disorderly in many of our congregations to seek admission to those under the care of your Miss[iona]ries with the view of escaping wholesome and godly discipline, which is attended with the further evil of unsettling the minds of the better class who remain. 
These brethren also act in regard to that terrible evil, caste, in a way so different from all other Protestant Miss[iona]ries that by that means alone it is not difficult for them to draw away people from other communions where that false and wicked institution is entirely discountenanced in all its forms.

All that we desire is that those whom you sustain in this land should cooperate with us in maintaining as far as possible the same external discipline in reference to other Miss[ion]s and be guided by the same general laws in this respect as the Miss[iona]ries of other Soc's. They would thus become our esteemed and respected fellowlaborers instead of being the occasion, to many of us, of great anxiety and annoyance.

The field is wide enough for us all and we desire to see it fully occupied and to recognize as fellowlaborers all who seek to bring the perishing heathen to Christ as their only Savior. We wish not to dictate to others on matters of eccles. polity - but when the proceedings of one body of Miss-[iona]ries directly interfere under the internal management of another community of Native converts, we feel bound earnestly to protest against such conduct as a departure from one of the 1st principles of our common Christianity <etc>

Oot. May 1858. I Sewell. M Winslow A B Campbell

Die publication of the protest in Engl und Germ'y to be secured as widely as possible

Amer. Luth. von Rhenius aufgefordert May 37 bildet sich die lutherische Miss Gesellsch der vereinten Staaten Heyer 1842 stayed with Stokes in Guntur Guans. 44. in Palnad 49. Die Norddeutschen (seit 45 in Rajamandri) verbanden sich mit den Amer Luth 1851. Jetzt 4 Missionare in 2 Stationen Gunt 153 getaufte Palnad 284, Rajam 20
Mal. 8.958
Telugu Christen 3.664
Canarese 2.612
Tamil Ceylon 4.083
Ind 75.500
Singalese Christen 11,373
zusammen 106,190 Jun 58
(in 6 Jahren 11,553 Zunahme).
