<Revd Dr H. Gundert, Missionshaus, Basel, Vi… Bombay and France, Stamp>1 
 Calicut Oct 15th /59
 <mit Beilage>*
Dear Papa

On the 4th Octob came yours of the 20 and 27th August for which many thank. You are not so fond of Dizenbach as the Buhrers were. She wrote that they were delighted with it. Samuel writes as if perhaps you may come out in the winter or in the spring; would it not be good for your health to wait till June and come out round the Cap the sea might be the only means to restore you fully, in that way you would just come after the monsoon. 
The Director came on the first, visited the English school and next day was off with Garthwaite to Malapuram from where he goes to the hills, people do not understand his malayalim said G. he was greatly disgusted from traveling in Malabar, he will try to give more allowance to G. for his traveling. he has permitted G. to remain in Malabar and only visit Mangalore or Canara, he spoke of introducing roman letters for Tulu instead of Canarese! He will also try that next year half of the expenses be given as grant in aid! Fourty <50> boys are in Convert school, Grant pleased with it. The Capt who was lost in the Pawna was Robertson. There was no row at Madras in Bangale the Company s soldiers refused to serve the Queen under the present conditions; Some favour to them would have brought them round and spare the Millions of Rs which their transport to England costs. Marie will I trust copy you Hebich s letter to his Indian friends in the Spectator I heard of it by Mrs Grant but she had not the papers any more. Pauline M. writes that she is much troubled with indigestion she can bear almost no food whatever. He is well. She heard from Mrs Cambel that Hebich on his way home preached powerfully at Bangalore.

I just hear that poor Brennen has left this world. I will try to get some particulars about him before I send this. Garthwaite who comes from Tellicherry says that B. gave 12 thousands to establish a Governement school! wants his son to be taken home and put in some Asylum, his whole property is in the hands of Brown for his son.

Mr Herre is greatly cast down about his school, his teacher a Roman has left him almost with all the boys of the first class; and has established a school. He Herre has began to build a school; but now there are so few boys, and if a Go School should begin according to B.s wish! but Garth sais that it is impossible to have a school with the 12000 Rs of B. it is not likely that it shall ever bigin. Is it not sad of the poor B. Alas! where has he gone? he left 6 years pay to each of his servants.

I hear diligently or regularly from Marie. but you will get all from her, plenty news I dare say.

Mr Hoch in a letter says "in the northwest at the very places where so many lost their lives during the mutiny there are now hundreds of candidates for baptisem at Delhy there are 300 at an other place 400 at a third again 300 at a forth and fith 200 and 100" He Hoch hopes to be here at the end of Novemb to rejoin his family at Coonoor. Yesterday a bangal ship was wreck on the rocks searched by Cap Taylor and Glasson. it had already lost its tow masts in a storm the other day: We pay the rice still 4 Rs 8 as per mouda! our girls drink Canjee at noon to spare the rice. Mr Thomas hast* just returned from Manantody where he goes again in three days. He wishes greatly to take with Him Convert till the Comity sends one Missionary he would keep C intirely to his charge; but what would become the school here which has now 50 boys, There are four Europeens beside Thomas for the work under him. 
I just received a long letter from Mr Nagel. When you go to Neuch. try to see him and Pourtales, Convert Mr Bourgard is here. Brennen has given 1000 Rs to Mr Hoch, he showed a real hatered to the Missionaries, Mr Frere will try to get the 12000 he gave for a g school to help on the Mission school though Brown is an ennemy too Frere may have some influance on him to give the money B. has made him his chief heir after 60000 to his boy. 
You will scarcly be able to make out these news, but I got them by bits The steamer is no more going weekly it did not pay it goes twice a month 

14th1
Mr and Mrs. Garthwaite are just here for a few days waiting for a pattimar to go to Cochin. They are miserable people, he told us plain that the way to make a good servant is to give one week a good beating next week some Rupies 3d let him quiet and so on, he is fearfully pationate and beats all round him. She brought as Ayah a Mrs Batcher* from Bangalore they also got displeased with her and she has now to go to her neveu at Mang Mr. Ball, She looks nice respectable woman, She would like to get service here; but she is already of age and could not I think do for Mrs Cook. Your Ramen has at last got an appointment in the catchery only acting 10 Rs per month. Ananden is going with the Garth. to Cochin G hopes to train him so as to become useful by and by, he has already got plenty beatings, and Rps too; but poor fellow I fear it makes him worse, he never come to any preaching though on Sunday he gets no work and tells his master that he comes to us, nor his wife come not even once since she has come except the day of her arrival. Vedamutu his brother after much begging here has gone to Kodacal where it seems he got some work. Next week Mr Huber of the Upper Country is expected here Convert who is a good friend of him is delighted of getting him for a visit or what? he is not yet quite well. I hope our dear Hermann will be able to come nearer you, it grieves me to perseive by Marie s letters from Herman that he is as* it were afraid of you still. Make rather some concessions or allowances in order to get near him. I trust Marie is writing you from the hills F and Diez are expected on the 24th Mrs Irion was near death by a prematured confinement she will have to go home they say. Love and kisses to the three little ones specially Freddy I like Burcard well.

Now dear papa I long to hear from you Adieu love to all
 yours aff J. Gundert
