 Tellich 16 Jan <59>*
My dear wife

Friday evening I went soon to bed, at a late hour. Taylor judged the wind good enough to lift anchor, but in the morning we were not far beyond Ellattoor. I saw Cook's house thro' the telescope. Only in the afternoon the breeze strengthend and we anchored off Tellich 4 PM. Landed near saltgodown and walked up past Buggy's house where I heard that indeed Herre's were expected the very same evening. We walked to Nettoor, had a nice evening, Burkhardt called our 2 sons lively fellows they appear to be liked at Basle, but he had been only 6 weeks there and knew little of them. Once he saw them in the Voranstalt all five together emptying a box of grapes sent from Stuttg. Then he says they were all equally busy. In vain we waited for the Herre's after ten. When going to bed we discovered that Taylor wished to go back to the Pattimar for the night, we had to yield. But he intended to spend this morning at Tellicherry1 with Brennen, and this he executed, coming only up (in our carriage) for dinner. He had listened to Sauvain's sermon. Brennen accompanying him to it the first time since the service is held at the Engl school. T. had good hopes of Br. who however seemed much inclined to works. Herre had arrived yesterday evening; but persuaded by Heb he went to the Fort instead of Nettur as had been settled beforehand, thinking there would be too many people here. Mrs Herre is tall and proportionally stout: very simple and sans gˆne, I like her. So do I Burkhdt. Mglg told the Comm. the day after he had been received, that he owed 40.000 fcs. <ist nicht richtig! s. Brf v 25/1>* Inspector was quite shocked and asked him how <he> could you have a quiet moment with such a debt. Oh, said he laughing, one does not die of that. But I must say too I cannot understand it! This evening we shall go on to Cannanore.
