<Mrs Julia Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay>1 
 Bale 28 Sept 59
My dear wife

Yesterday Herm. brought your and Marie's letter to the Kinderhaus where I sat a while at Fred's bed, who has a little headache, (but will already today be up again) and makes booksigns in his bed. Thanks for the news. If you can not get the mats of the size wanted send others such as one has. I do not think that you should take particular anxiety about them. - With your letter came one from Young which the post had delayed 2 full months. He does not talk of Burmah, but mentions his return to India as fixed upon the 20 Oct. mail. Fritz has just written about his health etc. I hope the Comm. will do something to get a sanitary near the Dr. - Mrs Mögl's letter has grieved me immensely. I mean that my suggestion about Harriet H should lead them to forget all their letters and orders to Mrs Kullen etc. I only hope she says No - otherwise it will be a pretty mess for the whole Mission. - Today 30 Sept the party left for Bombay - 7 persons, the 2 brethren Martig (China) and Reinhardt (Cannanore) with Mrs Schlunk, Misses Werner Lavanchy and Hirt and our old Lydia who is still a creature that cannot be relied upon. She ran away from Nonnenweiher to Bale and would not repent. When the ladies were told that they must look sharply after her Miss L. burst into tears, as if that was too hard - and L. found it out at once that here she had found the softest friend and clang to her tho' she could not speak to her either with her Engl or German. Mrs Schlunk and Miss Werner are the 2 most developped characters among the ladies, you would like them. Mlle Lav. spoke of paying you a visit, but that will depend on other wills than her own. - Lest I forget it, please write whether you want me to buy you spectacles and of what number. I ought to know something distinct otherwise I would purchase from mere guess

Inspector thinks it indeed probable that we may be sent to Cannanore. You will know that there they have received orders to buy a compound between Heb's and the seashore, in order to receive the Chiracal girls. Müller has not asked for a visit to Europe before he be sent to the Wynaad, but he declines going there and wants a younger man to be sent to that province. However as Gl. does not write, nothing will be done in that direction. 
Today is your birthday as well as our Emma's. May the Lord give you joy in your children, this is the best I can wish you as I understand by it both the white and the native children. David is very nice Yesterday he was the only one besides Jacob Ammann that came to the Miss[ionar]y meeting; and he knew afterwds to relate what he had heard, both the Chapter of the good shepherd and also the story related. Fr. says in excuse it is too langweilig, Paul complains it is so hot in that hall and then one must sit so quiet. They are not great friends of giving. Jacob A. collects for the Mission and nearly forces some others to contribute likewise, whereas ours will never subscribe and give but rarely. They say their income of 10 centimes per week is too precarious. If there be only Ziemlich gut in their testimonial, they get no centimes for a month. And ziemlich gut they argue, is not bad, is in fact good only somewhat moderately. With suchlike grievances they excuse themselves from giving: for which Carl Weigle has a particular inclination, more than any one else. But I ought now to conclude. May the Lord be with you and keep you yet many a year and let you see fruit of your labor. D. assured me yesterday: believe me I love you more than they (the 2 others) and so I do Mama. But I am as sure whenever you come their hearts will soon be gained. They want me to make it sure that I will send you out immediately after my return. But this will be as the Lord will direct. So then adieu for a while
 Your HG


1Meine liebe Mutter und Maria, -

vorgestern machten wir hier den ersten eigentlichen Abschied von Miss geschwistern mit. - Ich war sehr ergriffen. Es sind dies die ersten Freunde, die wir kennen lernten, und welche wir auch draußen mit lebendigem Interesse verfolgen werden. Ich hoffe, daß etliche auch bei euch heimisch werden; das liebe Fräulein Werner, Braut von Herrn Pfleiderer, hat gleich gefragt, ob ihr in Mangalore seid. - Auch Frl Lavanchy wird sich natürlich nach Mutter und Schwester sehnen. Gelt, liebe Mutter und liebe Marie, - ihr thut was ihr könnt! Gott erquicke sie nach dem Maaß ihrer Betrübniß! - Der alte Vater Werner weinte tiefbewegt, wie ein Kind, beim Abschiedsgesang im Saal. Sie wurden aber wunderbar getröstet und haben gewiß ein herzliches Bejahen von Gott erhalten auf die Bitte, die geschehen war, daß sie nämlich nicht um ein Kind ärmer, sondern reicher in der Heimath ankommen werden 
Für eure lieben Briefe herzlichen Dank. - Nächstes Jahr gehts Englisch an; - dann kann ich selbst ohne Mühe lesen. - Aber verstanden habe ich deßhalb doch heute schon was ihr wollt sagen, und sage natürlich herzlich Ja; weiß mich auch eins mit euch im Ziel, und freue mich herzlich meines Berufes. - Wenn ich nur auch recht durch Basel durchkomme; mit dem Anstaltsleben, und mit den verschiedenen Brüdern. "Wenn Du Dich Deines Berufs freust, sagte der liebe Vater, - so kommst Du durch!" - Der treue Gott machs wahr, was ich selber möchte, - und dann liebe Marie kanns wohl sein, daß Du mir einmal Haus hältst und Dich mit mir der Predigt des Evangel freust! - 
 Herzlich küssd euer H
