 Stuttg 17 Sept 59
My dear wife

Today came your letters of August (no date) The crowd of 144000 appear to me to be real Israelites (otherwise why the 12 tribes?) probably Gompertz may be of the number. Har-mageddon ist der Berg von Megiddo über dem Kishon Thal wo die Entscheidungsschlachten von Canaan geschlagen wurden (dort siegte Barak, fiel Josiah) How I forget myself, write in German to you but Marie will translate. We also have to fight, and the victory is something unspeakably great. - Those girls from Tell. I would not have received in your place you are quite right better give the Christian schoolgirls a dinner and send them in the eveng to their homes.

Garthw's I shall answer next time. Today no time left for it. He ought to apply to Mr Percival for the Mal books that were to be printed. I am glad for Mrs Hauff. As for Charles' wife I fear no one will know much about her spiritual state. Glasson has never answered my letter about the Vythery Mission It is a shame that he neglects young Campbell so much. But I fear the new impressions of England have quite taken him up. If Marie has left it is all right, but if not I should think it better if you did accompany her. You could easily go in bullock bandies from Coimbatore to Metypalayam and Scudder would send a pony with ours to take you up the Ghaut. Why not try it in company. Moerike I dare say would come and meet you. I have not heard of Fritz's movements. Metz is said to be resolved to accompany Hoch. 
The word gate in Rev 21,12 means a pylon, that is a high building over the portal.

I went at once to see Trayser and ordered a Harmonium for Mrs Grant. It will go thro' Mallalieu and Co, London. I hope via Cochin if they have not too long to wait for a ship. Otherwise via Bombay. I took a better one than that of the Church, but costing only 190 Fl on the spot, I dare say they will have it (with the expense of carriage) for 300 Rs if not cheaper. It is made for West Africa but the officer who ordered it has long forgotten to enquire: so they leave it to me and I hope they may have it before the Monsoon. Give them my Christian love.

On the 12th I visited Hermann at Freudenthal 13th Mrs Plebst at Laufen, where his poor brother is again without employ (although he looks somewhat like Pl he is very different in spirit) To him I gave the Bamboostick which Pl cut in the Coorg jungle. Visited Mrs Krauss, a highly gifted friend of Pauline but now deeply tried by a (mental) disease of her husband. She knew of you through Pauline. Got some grapes from her Saw Keuler's father and related of his death, the poor man much moved but a believer. Went also to Ludwigsburg to see Pfl's bride: but only the mother was present. Ernst accompanied me on this tour on which I marched 2 1/2 hours in one day. 
I did even more on the 15th when the whole house accompanied me to Altbach and ascended the hill to Aichschiess (where Mama related in the forest how she lost her way with Marie etc). But the Hasenauer's had gone to Esslingen. In their absence I read the life of the noble and happy Princess of Orleans, which edified me indeed. We walked then down to Esslingen (In Oberesslingen I visited Kurz the former friend) saw Hasenauer who in a formal manner offered me "thou" (tutoyer) but showed a real and truly kind affection. - 16th accompanied Ernst part of his way to Tübingen he is quite absorbed in his studies (Luther) the heart little in their great object. - saw a lost friend Fink, who has become a French Sensualist with what one calls a good heart. Poor fellow, he would not hear! Now I intend going to Barth at Calw. Therefore quick Adieu to you and Marie, to whom more the next time

The Lord be with you and
 Your HG
