 Stuttg 11 Sept 59
My dear Marie

The last time I was only 8 days waiting between your 2 letters. This was an extraordinary treat and quite an event to mark the close of my stay at Dizenbach. Whether I felt that you were shut up agst me? Of course I felt it, but the fact is I did not expect a romantic girl to take up very quickly and warmly with prosaic parents such as she found after a life's separation. I have of course never imagined that children that couldn't remember our love for them in childhood should at once be fervent in love when they met us; but I always thanked God that we have not had to complain of that perfect coolness and even dislike which other Indian parents have sometimes experienced with their children. The Lord has been very good to us in this respect and I think there are few happier families among the dispersed in different continents. Let us therefore be thankful. - Daur's Johannes is getting better since a large abscess has been opened. The Dr says however that he must get new blood in order to be quite well and that will take several years before the system feels the change He <D.>* came to see aunt R. whose counsellor and agent he is in all money matters. I may here state shortly that her possessions are of a somewhat shaky sort, and so you may well pray for her lest in old age she have to learn privations and straightenings to which as yet she is a stranger. Don't allude to this in your letters to me. It is n't a matter which merchant families like to talk about. Heinrich in Nürtingen has a little daughter, so uncle is a happy grandfather

As for Emily she goes on well, tho' never quite strong - also Selma is better than she was, Bertha happy with her little hero, Auguste rather a stranger to us (comes to Stuttg and visits only Mrs Elsaesser without coming to us) I don't take it amiss but am glad not to have the duty of running to go and see them. - Mrs Krapff I have seen but hardly spoken to, as she was much occupied with a sick infant. Since then he has transferred his abode to Riehen and serves in Spittler's institution, (Deaconnesses' inspection, direction of Crishona etc). Samuel heard him lately and was edified. Mrs Pfleiderer whom we saw the other day asked much after you; much more however the Staudts whose child I saw. They are all very kind to you. Mrs Frey and the Reuter's we also visited, but these it seems came after you left Europe Lechler appears to have written to St. that he has been wrongly in anger with him on acct of his daughter. It seems he has made experiences which prove to him that St's report of her was true. St. then spoke about the necessity of having many children in order to keep up an effective staff of teachers, because with the boarding etc money of 20 girls little can be done to secure first rate masters. At present he does no more dream of enlarging the Institution. 130 girls are certainly enough. Farewell
 Your Pa
