Mrs Gundert, Calicut, via Madras Marseille

 Basle 9 Oct 59
My dear wife (and Marie too)

Today David's birthday: all the three have been about me a great deal this week as they have had their holidays, and could easily get permission to spend every afternoon with me. I have had some interesting conversations with Dr Sandrezky of Jerusalem who is a dear Miss[ionar]y brother. So is Zaremba my neighbour just returned from a 3 year's journey thro' Russia, the Caucasus Turkey etc. He has done his best to kindle life wherever he went, his years are of course some what heavy on him so that he can no more as he would. His 2 friends König and Lang have visited him. Also Mrs Fuhrer formerly Miss Fellenberg who knew you at Mrs May's and knew esp. Mrs PourtalŠs. She has afterwds adopted Mrs Lehner's children, who were however after a time taken from her, as they wanted to have them at Darmstadt. She married then a widower the minister Fuhrer, whose daughter has lately died in our West African Mission. From WAfrica bad news, it seems the brethren spend much money and then think of giving up stations that have cost much because they think there is no blessing on them. Just now little money in the box, and ...0,0001 Fcs debts (with the girl's house newly bought for 40.000 Fcs) No wonder then if the stations get less money than in other years. The building of the new Mission house must also cost an immense sum. Mglg has written that they considered my letter about Miss Hodges as demiofficial (non-sense! it was as private as possible) that they supposed it possible Mrs Kullen who had been written to might not find a person for Kittel, and that they at last drew lots and found they ought to ask for Miss Hodges! Well here is room for the patience of the saints! I hear also that Mrs Möglg is to come home. That must be a great loss for the Mission at this time when everybody seems to get sick.

- I have seen Dr Streckeisen who will undertake to treat me in the course of the winter. He appears very careful and anxious to do his best. Hermann and Samuel have been daily with me and make progress. Their teachers are content with them. David's joy was very great at my presents (an Atlas etc) All like Geography best, Fred. does also something in the way of looking at stars and learning about them

Farewell
 Your HGdt


<Thanks for your letter received with this. We are all quite well. Sarah also but is very thin. Should I send Gunderts letters to Mercara? I return one. The other I will show to Mrs Grant and then send it>1
