Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Mang 28 Jan 1859
My dear wife

I just received yours of the 24th. You were too much troubled by my bit of illness. It is of course all in connexion with the old story: since I have given up bathing with cold water, I feel relieved. You need not come - in fact you could no more reach me accordg to my calculation and the horse will also be of little benefit. Fr. will have arrived before this and told you all about us. We lived together the latter half of our stay. - Nothing new here all is quiet, Amm. left yesterday, so I am the only guest remaining. Thompson came to see me today asked after you. H. Thomas has it seems got leave for 1 year. Lawson at Melbourne has taken a wife and continues to edit his newspaper. Mrs Stanger was confined of a girl 23 Jan. She appears to get on well. He wrote to Müller, but did not mention anything about his appointment in Coorg or Wynaud. Now let this suffice for today. After tomorrow I hope to write again.

My dear Marie Mr Boswell may have arrived today, for they say the steamer touched this morning. Nothing heard of him. I think Mr Holloway had some discussions with him about religion. No fear of my overworking myself. I take things easy enough. Miss Ch<atfield>* I intend to see once more before going off. You will yet learn how to be cheerful. It is not so very difficult. For the present you have learned I think that you are good enough to deserve hellfire - and that you have been let off very cheaply, on condition that you love Him that loved you. This ought to be the groundwork of our cheerfulness: to be daily faithful in little things must make up the rest!
 Your Papa
