 Stuttg 13 Oct 59

My dear wife

The day after David's birthday I left early for Strasburg, Herm and Sam accompanied me to the spot where Christianele had told you … revoir in 46; from thence I went to Strasburg in a cold waggon, but protected by my overcoat (I am highly dressed) and feeling benefitted by the rolling of the wheels under me. About Strasbg I will write to Fritz. On the 11th I left for Stuttgardt and arrived after 3 at the Terminus where Percy waited with mother and aunt to receive me. Aunt had given him the invitation, and had kept him for 8-9 days with increasing tremors, for he was always about some mischief, and particularly fond of crackers and fireworks which abound in this autumnal season; well he has since gone on to a Col. Thornbury at Canstadt, with whose boys he will know better how to amuse himself without frightening old ladies. Percy is affectionate, but would unlearn in our house all that Pfl. has taught him of obedience - for you know how softly aunt deals with boys. Sister Emma is now learning English with F. Müller: her only companion is a Miss Christian, whose mother I hear is on the point of dying: Marie knows her well, the sister of Mr Ostertag, who had only a few months ago lost her husband and therefore left Sindelfingen to live at Stuttgardt. I am glad Thomas will help us in the Wynad - but fear Glasson etc have given up the idea - <Chr>* Müller certainly does not seem inclined to go there, he wrote to the Comm. that younger men ought to be sent there - his wife also seems tired with Cann. and wishes to pay a visit to Europe. All are it seems ready for a visit to Europe, at least all old hands. If only they are happy enough to return with new strength to the field. Chombala has sent a letter of thanks for 400 Rs: Inspector got me the other evening to read the letter aloud at supper. Diez has tried to correct something about it, but he seems not to have made much progress in writing Mal since he left Cann. I hope he is the better grounded in speaking it. You never wrote a word about Strobel's fall from the horse. It is only at Bale I learned about it. I dare say he likes the hills better than Palghaut; and I think wherever he be sent he ought to have a brother to keep him company. But where are the men to come from! The Lord will do what is right. I feel stronger here since my return, and wear a waterband under my flannels. Farewell then meanwhile
 Your HG.
