<Revd. Dr. H. Gundert, Missionshaus, Basel, Vi… Bombay <Madras> and France>1

 Kaity 7th Nov 1859
Dear Papa

The day I left Calicut I wrote you that we were to go through Sisapara. The road was very bad not yet cleared up from the monsoon we reached Sisapara only at 8 oclock being no less than 16 hours in the way. our coolies did not come even so we had to spend the whole next day there in that piercing cold. On Friday we came in. Marie ran out by the rain to met me. I like Kaity well, though I feel the cold very much. Virtele lives just now in Mr Moerike Study having had fever they took him up from the low house to care for him here; he is now better. Marie and I live in the little rooms at the entrance of the dining room on the cookroom side. I found Marie looking well though not yet stouter nor rosy cheeks the dysentry she had at first did pull her down pretty much. Mrs Irion is very stout and rosy cheeks, keep still the cauch, is to go home in January, while he will stay a year longer, he is looking very well, has been much troubled about her, had to do every things during the 6 month she kept the cauch, Mr Moerike is poorly troubled with boils; but he is a fine soul. Convert who came with me caught cold his lips are very bad with sores, he cannot leave the room, he is quite disgusted with the hills, he cannot go from this to Vynad as he intended; the road is unpracticable. Thomas has offered 50 Rs per month for the Mission of Vynad. We have not heard from you for a long time; but I trust a letter is in the way from Calicut. As others had home news we shall get too!

I hope to go see the good friends of Coonoor after some time, for the present I keep quiet; My boils are passing away, The moment I came up some thing which had not appeared for four month came on, so I take rest. If Marie and myself are quite well towards the end of the year I shall go back to Calicut to be there for the time of embarcation, if not nevermind. I may come a month later, the trouble and expense to come so far shall make me to consider before returning. Should Fritz go home which is still uncertain, Calicut may also stay a month without us. Ann keeps the school very well for the time. Rama is at Calicut Fritz said that he would allow him to spend a month or more with his family, he is not fond of having his Changara and Rama together. I was quite pleased with Rama the whole time. Fritz had his boy on the hills; and it is quite as good if R goes to his people for some time; for I do not like much Fs boy to be with R. Fritz sees no one so good as his boy and I no one so good as Rama! Mrs Moegling very poorly. She has now Miss Deubly who helps her for the outfit She takes home the children of Mr Fennel Metz, ill every week and unable to take the smallest fatigue, he hopes a year at home will set him quite right hopes then to marry and return to India. Here people were much surprised at the very quick decision Hebich took to go home. I trust the Lord had a work for him there.

You will still excuse me to our dear boys Marie has just come from Coonoor and can but write her own letters and I feel so cold that I can scarcely write. I send to all of them much love and kisses. for the next time I hope to have some lines.

Convert has written home for a wife I hope you will bring her out. Herriette Hodges is at Bangalore, Mr and Mrs Hodges are on their way to Calicut, I have not seen them. She did not accept Kittle. P wrote that he is ingaged to a fine christian lady the daughter of the Decan Eydt Mr and Mrs Ward have just paid us a visit, she looks very much like her mother stout and strong. She has advised Mrs. Irion to give up all Dr and medecines, use only water cure. So Mrs I at once settles to have done with all Drs and medecines. they both Mr and Mrs. W. do not seam to be lively christians. Mr and Mrs Lascelles are in Wales in very good health.

Next week Col and Miss Clemance are expected to spend a day with Metz Dr and Mrs Leslie are also expected. Virtele is a fine man the Moerikes are much pleased with him, his heart is right with the Lord and he labours diligently. I have not yet seen the converts, they were at Coonoor with Moerike for the dedication of Mr Scudder's Chapel. Adieu dear papa. I am glad I came up for me as well as for Marie

Love to all the friends
 Yours aff
 J. Gundert
