 B. 28 Sept 59
Liebe Marie

Siehe da eine reiche Bescheerung - Frau Vietor ist eine Bremen'cherin, ihr Haus dort was Chevalier's in Stuttg I can quite understand that you doubted my acting aright in 58. Neither do I think it altogether the best that could be done, but I fancy still it was the best I could then do. At other times I might have acted otherwise and another might have found out a more excellent way, but I do not break my head about such things - past is past, and only God can mend it. But I know so much that I was never half as much displeased with you as I found reason to be with dear H. Understand what I mean - if H was a merchant or a free student, I should say: all right, he will mend. But for the Mission he was wanting something very essential and would not see it - no wonder if I used also hard words to rouse him a little. But our ways are in the Lord's hand - he alone can make something of us for His glory. - Remember me kindly to the Bean's and whoever thinks of me - At Mang. it seems they have at present no kind friend of that kind. - About Villa Franca I do not like to speak: every body feels that this is no conclusion, but we will wait for all that comes. As for me I like the peace such as it is - people call it a foul peace, but such I think have been all the peaces of the world and will be. Meanwhile the furious massacres are stopped and we can take breathing time to prepare for the farther doings of the Lord. - You have had a hard day; I can well feel for you - others like it and even worse may follow. But they cannot hurt you if you see the great need of following the Lord implicitly and seeking Him for strength and faithfulness. Hard days make us also thankful for happy days such as I am sure the Lord will give you for a change whenever needed: yea he sends them beyond our need as often as we are able to bear them. The fact is we must learn not to trust men and yet to love them only the more. Loose all esteem for them such as they are and yet abound in commiseration for them, knowing that what they are we are likewise, only that the Lord has been pleased to make a little difference in our favor. - I have sent you a photograph, your Rieger's sentences (from Capadose) and a collection of letters from the 5 brothers, which you may look through at leisure and partly translate to Mama. For her I sent a Daguerrotype. If you can see once Mrs Schlunk at Cannanore you will have pleasure with her I am sure. I fancy even she will be more generally liked than he. - Leupold of Benares is also here, they say that the loss of their Martha will not be got over until death. Her memory is quite alive among the natives whenever a child dies, black or white, they say surely it is gone to Martha's school, for they fancy that she still teaches a class and has for this purpose been taken away so early. L. is nice and unaffected, his wife looked a thorough housewife, tho' English born, and I wondered whether it was true as people said that they always travelled first class by railroad, a point which gave great offence to some so called Mission friends. You will know that Zaremba has returned and is very hearty. Also Lang his old friend has come and enquires after you. When you hear any report thro' me, such as about Olga, you ought never to write to others: my Papa says or has heard - and this I say not merely on account of myself but because it may save you some annoyances. Never state unnecessarily who is your authority for saying this or that. I ought to add that you have even misunderstood my words on this point (of Olga's questions). Now farewell and may the Lord keep you in his hand
 Your Papa
