 Mang 25 Jany 1859
My dear wife

I will talk with Pfl, but you can hardly fancy what a confusion there is at present with all the G.C. sitting - I going down to the Engl school, and in the evening ladies and children coming up to sit here. Yesterday evening long Can and Tulu Service to which also Fennell came, as well as Taylor Fenn sat then opposite Heb at tea. Strange to say F. had told T. our view was, that we German Missionaries after being converted could no more sin! Taylor will take the Müller's and Würth to Honore. - I did not go to that service, but sat with Fritz and got Esther to relate to us many stories, f.i. how David when they entered London was the first to see the Leviathan or Great Eastern and cried Hallo what a big ship. At Basle he would no more talk English, only Germ., but with Esth he continued in Tulu f.i. once i enku dala panere ijji - it is quite enough that you always commanded me on board ship Don't this Sit here - Go away there etc Now you have nothing more to tell me Still he was very affectionate. So was Herm. inquiring plenty after Elisa. Samuel is bahala santan. She reads and speaks Germ. nicely, but not with us. Titus also knows it well only that article! (Der gute Knabe, des guten Knaben etc!). People often laughed at her, boys followed her, crying: Neger! Many women thought that it was the cleverest thing in the world to dress as she did occasionally in native clothes. One boy begged his Mama not to give her sheets as they would become black: and others feared being kissed lest their lips be colored. - Our Stuttg people have been very kind to her. Also Mr Fritz's sister in law. - F. is quite well and sits with the brethren. I had the bowels in disorder for the last 4 or 5 days and am only now stronger again after a very quiet night. - Mgl's debts are nothing like what I heard at Tell <Brf. v 16/1 40,000 Fcs!>*. You cannot believe how fresh he looks. The Comm. has settled all very kindly with him. He will soon get a fellow laborer, and has to build at Muckati. Nothing particular as yet about the Conference, still it seems Bühr is afraid of being sent to the North. The people begin to ask after him. Joshua with the large mustachios and Gideon were here and asked also about your health. But this must suffice for today. - Fancy only it appears from what Mögl says that Chr. Müller after writing with Hebich a letter concerning the Sauvain's wrote another as it were in secret to the Inspector and that in consequence Irion has now got them on his back. This is not sure, only suspected, but CM. will be asked about it. <Br. Gundert>1 never visits the Genl Conference but examines schools etc and is now in best spirits.

Farewell and the Lord be with you all
 Your HGdt

Camerer's bride is invited to Mang - Pl will look at coffeemill Pfl sends you only 20 Dozen of thread all as you had ordered, therefore order quickly anew. The thread is packed but still at hand - Elisele, liebe Marie, ist ganz wohl und ordentlich. Theoph besser als er war. Mercia steif und etwas neben draussen, Esther sieht viel mehr gleich obschon in native clothes nur mit Strümpfen und Schuhen an die sie sich einmal gewöhnt hat. Von Nancy und Handibo nichts neues, als daß letzterer schrieb, sein idol sei ihm genommen, und alles recht, aber seine Frau könne es noch kaum glauben 