Dr H. Gundert, Mangalore, Stamped1

 Calicut 26th Ja <59>*
Dear Papa

Yours of the 23d received this morning gave us much joy, as you say nothing of your health we conclude that you are better, or that at least it was not so serious as I had suspected. About 9 Oc I got the one dear Gompertz which I read in a hurry and quickly sent off, for the boy was told that it was still time for Mangalore, so I hope you will have received it and have unswered for me too for I do not know how to address to him else I would have written I think for I feel very much drowned twards him and those dear people. it has truly done me good to hear of such love to the Lord as he has and had our dear Mrs. Walker.

What do you mean about Lauffer's return he came back on the next monday evening.

Today I follow your advice and keep very quiet left Sister Moerike and Marie at school the whole day; for I felt so nervous and weak that I felt as if I could not move. I hope the work of the Lord will go on in Miss Chatfield. her cousin Mr Boswel was much pleased to hear you had seen her. he said that till now she had been no help for the good of her father the contrary. I did not understand how he meant it.

I am truly pleased with Mrs M. there is much more than I expected! and she is willing to recieve at least it seems so to me. Esau has been here and some others the exebition has began today, so it is rather noisy here 
Adieu dear papa love to all Yours J.G.

Esau told me that the Governer at Mah‚ is gathering people and send them by ship, he has now from 20 to 25 amongst whom two women who left the christians at Coilandy one under pretance to see her son at the mission school at Telli. Timothius has seen them at a window weeping lamenting; but no one is allowed to come high! 1Mama tells me to ask you, whether you could not give some of David's clothes to D. Ammann?

My very dear papa! Mrs Möricke and I went this Morning to the exhibition, where we saw planty things but not much of interest to young girls. We held the School together all well. In the Evening we took a very long walk by our-selves, I cannot well describe whereto we went, suffice it to say that we went through paddy fields without knowing whither and at last came home by the way of the Channel. I like Mrs Mörike, she is still like a young girl! Mr* Glasson came this evening complaining that her son was not well and felt so much the absence of His mother. He is sometimes even in tears and must be very tender. Glasson has the honor of being one of the members of the Comity (or what) for the exhibition. He has settled the case with B. and so Stanger does not get this place however Gl. says He will find him some other employment elsewhere. - But I have not yet written about that which rejoices me most. I am very very glad Hebich could speak to Miss Chatfield and I truly believe that she will become a child of God. Ah then only she will know what it is to be happy. I wonder when she will write to me again and whether she will tell me any thing about this. I am happy, dear papa and hope you are so too With a tender kiss your own child  Marie
