 (Cal.) Stuttg 18 Oct 1859
Liebe Marie

Heute also ein Wort des Grusses - hoffe Du läßst Dirs mit jedem Geburtstag immer wohler werden und freust Dich Deiner Jugend. The sooner you commence to rejoice in the Lord the longer you will enjoy it. Therefore I do half envy you to have begun so early to seek and find the Lord: I have been very dark in those years of yours. Only you must continue. Such a story as Jones' is something awful what a lesson to us not to be proud and secure in all our joy and happiness. But I fear H. himself helped J. to be sure of himself and look down upon others. What H. says of J. Sc. you must not take so very strictly. J Sc is a thorough American and has curious ways in his inward life: but still I think it real and H. ought to think so too when he remembers what became of J. who once fancied himself so far superior to Sc. We ought to be more largehearted than these dear brethren, from whom yet we may learn many things as to strictness towards our own selves whereas we ought by no means to join them in their harsh judgments of others. Sc. was always glad when the conversation became warm on the things of God: he also could bear my divergent views on many subjects tho' I felt he did not quite like them. But he could not bear the assurance with which young Christians like H. and J. began to speak on all sorts of intricate subjects, condemning others and flattering themselves with spiritual conceit, and I do not blame him for it. It is a pity that he became so touchy and irritated but then we must make allowance for his poor state of health. I shall be glad to hear you have seen him and like him - not in every thing, but in the chief matter. But how is it, once you wrote the Sc's leave for the low country and now you think it still possible to meet them at Coonoor. However the Lord will direct your steps. If at Coonoor greet all the dear people heartily from me, especially Mrs Lawson and Mrs Bennetts. I shall be glad if you have found any companions for your trip for I don't quite like the idea of my girl travelling alone such a way - without real necessity. - I am glad you are to see Mrs Pfleiderer. I liked her very much and believe she will be a blessing to her husband and the Mission in general. She will also tell you news about Basle Kornthal etc. - 19th Yesterday I went with Emma and Br Müller to Fellbach to visit her uncle. We spent some nice hours there: in walking back to Canstadt we did the first part too slowly and had then to run the last bit in order to catch the train. We succeeded in this and had a happy afternoon. Emma has now Engl lessons with Müller and makes some progress. Her friend (Sophie Christian) who joins in these lessons has lost her mother as you will see by the Mercur. Ostertag is expected here within a few days. Our 3 ladies went last Sunday with the coffin to the new churchyard where Knapp is said to have described in a few short sketches her Christian Character. Nothing from Corcelles, where Francis ought to have arrived before this. I hope you are happy when this reaches you and trust the Lord will add to your happiness every day of your life. 
 In His love
 your Papa
