Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar

11 On board the Ottawa off Cosseir 8 May 59

My dear wife

A steamer in sight and a possibility of talking with her So I will quickly write a few lines. Last Wednesday I dispatched No 10 from Aden by the Bombay which left barely half an hour after our arrival. The Northam followed her for Australia about noon. Harrison and Glasson landed and inspected Aden. Percy M visited at least a ship in the roads. I remained on board with many passengers. In the evening of the 5th havg coaled we steamed on passed 5th early the straits - had on the 6th our hottest day (90ø) but felt a relief yesterday evening - when a northerly wind came on. We had to give 2 watercasks to a pilgrimship from Singapore, already 7 months at sea, and still 60 miles from Djidda without sufficient water for 2 days. This night was cold. In my cabin sleeps Mr Middlecoat, a poor Ensign that has lost his health by excesses: at present he has dysentery and is very bad: full of fear therefore apparently contrite I prayed with him this morning. Within a few hours we shall have service - and may the Lord open my lips, which are but too often closed when there is an opportunity of witnessing for his name. Really shiplife is trying for faith. I can hardly go to my cabin for readg and prayer except it be with the sick youth: and then I must go on deck again for the air is so vitiated downstairs But certainly I am already much better in health. Glasson is in good spirits and sends kind love to all, as myself. Percy I had once to flog for drinkg grog with that poor Middlect and telling me lies in excuse. Now I will close and see if there is a chance of the letter going off.
 Your HG

10th There was no chance of sending this letter with the steamer for Madras. But now we near Suez where I will post this. God has been gracious to me these last days, so that I could preach and converse more freely and felt a little of the contempt that is poured on Christ and drizzles on his followers. Harrison very fine, no better in body. It is cold now, strong Northwind - Mrs Holloway looks rather wearied, has little help from her servant. Ellen is happy and rather wild - the little prince more quiet. We land about 8 AM tomorrow and go on by rail

Goodbye and the Lord bless you
