Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseilles and Madras

 Basle 8 Dec 1859
My dear wife

At last again a letter - that of the 31 Oct just before your departure for the hills. For 3 weeks I have been without anything and not a line from Mary since she is at Coonoor, except the first news of her arrival there. - And just now comes a 2d letter - yours of the 20th Oct - why should you write via Bombay on that and thus condemn it to wait for its successor? If you had written Madras I might have had it a week before. I am glad you are doing the very thing I required of you, seeing the hills once more, and may the change do you good and enable you to be of some use to Marie. - What shall I say? I pity her, for I feel well this is backsliding, mixing nature with grace and thinking it all the more spiritual. But I can do nothing except praying for her that her faith fail not entirely. I would not reason with her, because passion is so much more ingenious and eloquent than mere common sense. Yet should she be led to try herself whether she is in the faith - how far she can thank God and be happy in his dealings. 
My story has now taken a new turn. 3d Dec brought Barth's letter, signed by himself and the members of his Committee: wherein he describes the work I would have to do and offers 1000 Fl per annum besides house accommodation. Insp was angry that they offered me less than f.i. Fr Müller or Albr. has (the latter 1350 at Frcft), he even thought I should not accept it. But I felt differently about it. My difficulties are all connected with the change of work now laid on me. But if it be God's will I am sure we shall have what we require in the shape of money or daily bread. I felt it hard to come to a resolution, asked the Comm. if they would not assist my perplexed mind by saying they like me to accept or to refuse. This they would not do. They have however done this much, they declare that Calw is as important to them as any of their stations, they believe that I am better fitted for it than any person they can remember, and lastly they suppose that I should regret with them not having accepted the call if after all my health did not permit me to return to India. So then I am resolved to answer that I accept provisionally until I hear from you - which is about March - my health also dissuading me from doing hard work before that time. It is now with you to tell me your mind. If you disapprove of it decidedly I am glad of it and resume the old plan of getting well and returning to India in due time. But if you think that God's will lies in the way of Calw - then you will have to commence the work of breaking up our establishment and returning to Europe before the Monsoon. At Calw we should have our 3 boys with us. This will cause some expense. I therefore think it right that you sell what you do not want and get a sum for our first establishment (horse perhaps 50. harmonium 100 etc). The Committee will also pay for Marie's return. But all this requires of course farther resolutions. Now I have written all I think necessary for this time. As the Comm. evidently wish me to accept and are only prevented by delicacy from ordering me to Calw, I think God's ways decidedly point in that direction and we must make ready for it. But I would much rather hear your whole mind about it than merely a short assent. Let me therefore know exactly how you view the question. - Theodor has been with us this week, he is well and happy. So are the boys. Farewell
 Your HG.




 <8 Dec 59>*
1Private. I know well that you will be perplexed how to choose in the present crisis. It is therefore necessary that I speak plainly though it goes agst my grain. Inspector thinks it possible, that when the brethren hear of Marie's departure one may offer to marry her. Not that I know anything certain. Würtele asked for a wife from Würtbg Convert who just wished to get leave to marry looked for a bride from Neuchatel - so at least I hear. You can easily fancy that I have no wish to get rid of Marie - on the contrary, if you return, she might help to initiate you into German housekeeping etc. But as we cannot exchange many letters on this subject, since you will have to choose and prepare your way with some diligence I must be explicit. I give you therefore full power to do what you think right for Marie: only adding the wish that you use the advise of one Christian brother in whatever resolution you take. You may therefore if it appear necessary leave Marie with some sister for a longer time, you may permit her to engage herself - you may even, if you judge <convenient tell her>1 that she is at liberty to renew her correspondence with Mr Barns; in fine as the question is - return to Europe for good - or life in India - you may act exactly as if I was not on earth - with full power over her. You may also determine to stay with her some time longer if that appear necessary: you are not bound to do things in a hurry. I cannot say that I should like M. to marry any one not decidedly converted, but as the decision is to be arrived at without me I promise never to criticize what may be done in this matter but to accept it as from the Lord. Knowing that you will try above all to find his will and be guided by it, I thus leave the matter with you.

My writings you might send with the Windsor Castle if there is still time. Of the books I want esp all that treats of India - but you may sell German books esp. new works, and also that French Revue des deux mondes. One box is still with Isenberg - I want that, I mean the Malbooks inside; other books are at Mangalore, perhaps also something with Major Drury, Trevandram, to whom Hermann sent a package for me with his pianoforte. He might be asked.
