Mrs Gundert, Calicut, via Marseilles und Madras

 Bale 8 July 1859
Love to the brethren

My dear wife

1 July returning from Beuggen I wrote you a letter. The day after Hanna Werner, Pfl's future returned to Stuttg and I accompanied her to the railway, remembering how often he helped us on board a pattimar or steamer. She is a nice creature, hoped not to be forced to marry the day after arrival: on which point I could assure her. Dined with the Albrecht's at Pfarrer Cramer's whom I also heard preach to the French Congregation (3d July) without feeling much edified. He looks to me more an intellectual than very lively Christian (is of Freechurch sentiments) That Sunday evening I had yet to relate of Christians in India, men of Gompertz's, drummer's, soldiers' stamp. Mr Sarasin told me that it was very interestg, of which I am so far glad as he had kept a very poor recollection of my miserable speech at the Ladies Society's anniversary in 46. I also paid my last visit to teacher Kolb in the Voranstalt, which our 2 sons are now leaving thankful for many blessings. 4 July Albr's and Fr M端ller leave for Germany. Albr was very friendly with me, but I had no conversation with him - he wishes by all means to return to India which Insp thinks not advisable except the brethren wish for him, though for himself he is persuaded that Albr is better than he was. 5 July Mrs B端hler visits with an Americ Baptist: Osgood, a warm brother who wished to see the Kinderhaus male and female. The evening brought me your welcome letter of 17 May. Ch M. wrote for Hanhart to send him a wife, as Mrs Diez though a good child could never become a mother for Chombala I hope the dear sister will be restored by the Lord. I could not help wishing Mrs M. was as good a child as she, whatever her activity may be. Mglg wrote very well of the Sauv's ("weak but not bad"). He also desired Mrs Kullen to seek a bride for Kittel. It is right you took the private papers for Garthw. out of the official paperbox. I have written to Glasson who never answered Insp's letter. Much depends upon that. Should Ch. M端ller go to Vytry we would be sent to Cann. Yea we might even go there whilst M is there, as they write of a house near Hebich's being for sale and the Comm. ask: could the Chiracal institution be transplanted to Cann? On the whole I think the Comm would like me most at Cann. But these are mere talks no consultation: as I have always told Insp that all must depend upon the state of matters at my return. 6 July. the girls migrate into the new house bought for them near the Ecklin's. Sam. and Herm help to transport their things. Rector Burkhardt whom I visit permits the 3 boys to commence their vacation 8 days before the rest. 7 July Mrs B端hler was long with me to hear about India, I returned her visit this morng at Pf Sarasin's - went then to Insp. who allows the 5 to go with me tomorrow to Corcelles. (NB has Wackernagel's Lesebuch been returned by Holloway before his departure?) I am glad to leave this because of the many visits one ought to pay and which are a fearful burden in such a heat with such a coat and hat! Now farewell
 Your HG.

I steal from packing the time for this letter therefore excuse poverty 