<Miss Gundert, Care of W. Stanes Esqre, Coonoor>* Stamped

 <8 Octbr 1859>*
Dearest Marie

Many thanks for your two letters just received the one of 10-11th together, when you find that the time of tapal is past rather wait till next day; but above all spare my eyes and do not cross your letters please. 
By all means buy a riding dress, get the money from Mrs Hoch or Moerike if you have not. Mr Garthwaite treats his servants shamefully. they are poor people indeed. I shall be so glad to see Mrs Lawson I only trust it will not meet at the time I be at Tellicherry

These few lines will just reach you on your birthday. May you be really blessed and know more of an abiding communion with the Lord. He is able to fit us in all things so that His Name be Glorified by our walk and words. Oh for eyes and hearts continually fixed on Him, for a mind like His which was intirely bent to do the will of the Father. May it be your blessing to love and deligh in the will of God, to find it at all times good agreable and perfect. The Garth have not yet got a patima for Cochin. Mr Huber from Dahrwar is coming on Tuesday by steamer, the time begins to have the house full

Mrs Buhrer has got a son I heard this morning! Ann Samuel women and girls all send Salams The woman Elisa fancys herself clever enough to be taken home with the children. she has sent me word by Julie that she will care for Sarah in the way! both the two girls send you kisses they are thank God well.

Adieu my beloved Child Love to all your friends, but specially to L  yours J. Gundert

