Miss Gundert, Kind care of W. Stanes Esqr., Coonoor, Stamped 
 Calicut 13th Oct <59>*
My dearest Marie

Many thanks for your two last dear letters of 8-9th You are very good to give me so many news, I am truly thankful. But now here is an other business, you see by Mr Nagels letter, he would like to get the report in this month, of course it must go through Bale first else they would be angry. You see by his letter that small Hana had been written home therefore take her away from the new report and say only 62 girls. The woman I expected with three little girls has been kept back by her mother. Now my dear if you could write the report it would be right; put in German what we did together here at the end of it add that Mr Nagel has desired us to send the report in October; so that he has it for a Christmas present for his children who take the greatest interest in the Calicut school. However as we do not know whether it is according to the wish of our honorable comity we send it to them to be forwarded according to their will. Add to the report that Tirza is very ill with Dysentry. Asha whom I thought better is not; but goes slowly to her grave.

My sweet precious child you will have terrible business to make out what I mean. pardon your poor Mama and graciously do your best! Send the report direct to the Comity and some days afterward, the letter to Na send here Convert can forward it to him. Say (in German or English he knows) both). That I am greatly obliged for his kind and affectionate letter, the interest the children take to our school moves me truly and I praise the Lord for it To hear that they pray for each child separate gives me much courage and hopes and I trust our dear Lord will give a blessing to the prayers and to the prayed for. He must excuse me for not writing this time as you are absent I have much to do therefore will accept a short letter for the present. The repot is sent to Bale from where he will get it; but we according to his wish will write him now and then direct somme communications about the school which however must never be printed nor published. Only what they get thoug Bale can be public. Domingo and Juvano are portugeese, after the death of the father the mother was advised to put these two girls to the institution while she herself tooke service to help to bring up the younger ones, A few days ago the only son now of age to learn has been sent to The Tellichery Mission school, they are kept just like the natives. According to the report he will see that there are many new girls from whom they may select one insted of Cleopa who has maried (tell about her what you know, you have seen her in her own home)

Whe the girls are grown up they usually marry some of our christians; the weaving and carpenting establishements occupy many young men for whom we are glad to get wives, some of them also mary labourers belonging to the mission as well from Kodacal as from Coilandi, some are also destined for the young men of Tellicherry station. Regarding the idol sent him I am sorry to say that I do not know what it is; it has been given to papa at Mangalore; but papa will very likely D.V. go once more in Neuchatel than he may here all from him. The letter sent from this was written in the names of all of them.

My sweet child add any thing true which can interest them. I leave it you. The Garthwaite are coming this evening, they have sent two Vandies of Samana to be cared for till they return from Sirci Mang or what! her Ayah is also here till a Steamer takes her to Mang. Shlung and Burchard are expected tomorrow So1 I have enough; but I am thank God better than I was. 
No letter from papa you see one week more and we shall get I trust. Mr Fritz has written that Mrs Irion is very ill is it a prematural confinement or what try to give me some particulars. Give thanks to dear Bess for her kind letter. I will answer afterward. 14th The Garthwaite as I was in bed already and wanted to enter the bangalow which had been prepared for them; but the key was not found to open the door; they had to send for Rama who had already gone to his house, he made then ready Converts room for them. This morning who should be in the bangalow, but their little pion Peter who shut up with the key inside and the lamp burning till after 6 O'C! I heard some noise indeed about 10 O'C but did not know our two gentlemen were so troubled for the room etc

Adieu my dearest Marie. Mrs Garthw and Grant send you love. Mrs B I have not seen for pretty long Love to all your dear Hosts specially to dear Louise
 Your Mama J. Gundert
