Mrs Gundert, Calicut

10 On board the Ottawa 3 May 1859

My dear wife

Today only 160 miles from Aden - but I can hardly write! how the steamer shakes - and my hand seems to have no power. Still I will try - Tuesday 26th evening we went on board, rather afraid of being long delayed by the Governer's post. But about 9 PM the mail came off and we steamed out of the harbour. Mitcheson had been on board till we left. I liked him much. Mrs Is<enberg>* was so anxious to have her husband back in safety that he could only accompany me to the shore. The cabin holds 4 persons, Mr Baumbach, an English merchant with only a German name, Percy Mitcheson and myself. The 4th passenger was brought in about midnight in delirium tremens. As he bawled out, sought a penknife to kill himself etc he was put under restraint by the Dr and we saw nothing of him for 2 or 3 days. The 4th day he returned somewhat calmed. He is a young Ensign Middlecoat 7th MNI, as old as our Hermann, brought up among Wesleyans, but already half ruined by excesses of every kind. He talks easily about religion, repents a little because he would wish to marry a Lady whose miniature he showed me in the first half hour, but is a boy without strength or will. Well on the 2d morning I breakfasted but in vain - P.M. was sicker than myself and did not recover till the 4th day. I had enough of one accident and felt never inclined or tempted to repeat it. My little charge looked very submissive at first but has since made much nonsense and I had once to punish him. He tries most cunningly to escape from me and serve the ladies on deck who reward him with portions of their own delicacies. He is not so very good natured as I thought, prays with seeming simplicity morning and evening, but remembers hardly the ships of the day: also homesickness is hardly perceptible. Mrs Holloway tired with the crying baby: Ellen roves about and knows every waistcoat which contains plums or that sort of things. She is affectionate with me but more taken up with other children. Dr Harrison my chief compagnon of very accurate and multifarious information - loves the Lord truly as does his wife, but feels drawn towards every thing, really or seemingly worth knowing. On Sunday 1st of May I preached on the last verses of Rom. IV. The auditory rather numerous. 9 Doctors 9 Colonels, with Majors and Captains innumerable, - no Civilian - but merchants railroad employ‚s etc constitute our Society. Ladies a good number, 2 widows, one with 4 babes, whose father was lately killed in action (Mrs McKinnon). The ladies wished to have an afternoon service but no time or place could be found for it. We are very crowded. The heat increases these last 2 days. It is now melting me beyond what I could have expected. But my health is very good. I eat and drink without much care, helping myself to what is near at hand. In the night we hope to make Aden when I shall send this to the postoffice - I hardly think of going ashore as the hotel near the seaside is gone. To ride into Aden I have little temptation, tho' I shall remember your anxiety and my blackheartedness in the presence of that black hill. Now farewell Kiss to you both love to all from
 Your H.G.
