Miss M. Gundert, care of Catechist Paul, Missionhouse, Palghaut 
 Calicut 27th Sept <59>*

This morning my dearest Marie a cooly left this for Kodakal to bring the things forgotten by the dear Diezes I had then no time to write you. found plenty to do besides poor Sophie the Vytry girl is very ill I had to put her mustard poultice I fear she will follow Perpetua soon - In church Sarah stood quite alone and looked very proud of her vaillance tell it to her papa. You had a good night I trust, there was no rain here! No home letters as yet. I hope you have a good sunday at Kod. fourteen people were baptised this morning, Little Amu was carried in Church she is the same. What is the baby doing? The baptisem kept us in Church till after 12 so I shall keep the girls but a little while, As Mr Fritz does not intend to return soon, but to wait for Mr Diez's return it would be better for Babu to return from Coimbatoor alone than to wait so long there. See with Mr Diez, and if he is not wanted from Coimbatoor let him come back; but if needed till Medapalium never mind let him go and return from there without waiting for Fritz if he can get any companion; but not alone. I find the sunday very long without you, your corner at school looks so dull, I trust I shall accustum to this. but I feel it to day much therefore I write to pass my time I did not go to the afternoon's preaching! Mr C sees that I have enui after you and would gladly comfort me; but you are not here every moment I fancy to hear you coming up stair and kiss me or say some thing

Monday good morning I trust you had as a good night as I had myself! This morning I am well, the little sick girls better too. From half past ten till after 12 Oclock Ann sits at school so that I have a nice quiet time. I let her free after noon. No news from papa I have just an answer to write to Miss Cook who asks for Mrs Bean's old Ayah to go serve her at Tellichery You know how much I like to write my hand shake so much besides my numberless mistakes; but what I shant always have my right hand and head writer by me! Oh my precious Marie what are you doing Mrs Bean came to see me this eveng and asked much after you. Mrs Garthwaite wrote me to send her a earthen bathing chaty. I possesse no such thing; but I have sent your tub, your cat dismayed at your absence makes remarcable friendship with Dina lies by her while she works and looks at her for his food. No news here that I know. Does Louise know the day you intend to arrive there? 
The evenings are fearfully long, here I sit quiet near my table waiting for eight O'clo which does not strike Oh Marie make hast to get red cheeks, stout, fate, strong and come to your poor old mother, who looks on every side for her right hand

Tuesday good morning my sweet child, how are you? you get a manuscript this post day with this. I hope the Lord is with you and becomes more precious to you than all else. Tell me how it is with the old story which trobles you some time

With a warm kiss
 Yours affectly J.G.
