 Stuttg 20 Jun 59
Liebe Marie

Danke für Dein Brieflein. I read it with Emma böse Yemma to teach her a little English. She loves you very tenderly. Also other people know you f.i. Mrs Vietor. Yesterday when I passed Berg I saw the Kornthal Carawan entering the Baths and thought of the time when you also came that way. I hope you do not regret it. Poor Miss Cook I only wish she could look forward with rejoicing to the end of her disease. If I do not forget it I will look for some sermons of Ad Monod - Herm. copies that Denkmal but of course slowly. I do not know when the next instalment will be ready. I met Mr Hoernle the other day in the streets, Müller knew him but I could but see him for a minute as he hastened with his children to Kornth by the railroad. The latter looked very Moeglingish and understood no Hindostanee, and but little English. Mrs Hoernle is with the Fuchs at Kirchheim. The eldest son I had seen at Tübingen. - David writes ich glaube dass ich der 1ste werde: he is now third. The 2 others do not write the 10th part of what he performs. A Mrs Goetz seems to have invited them when they bathed, played Roessli Fulzi (?) and ate so much that D. "ganz dick wurde." Your 2 letters I sent off, that one to Mrs Daur must have contained great secrets, however I denied myself and dispatched it unread! Beringer's have invited Samuel, Stroh's Hermann to live with them during the holidays, but I foresee that they will all stop together with us in Highstreet No 6. May the Lord sanctify our joy. I dare say we shall have our quarrel's together when we are so closely packed in these narrow rooms.

So you think now and then rather tenderly of old idols? No wonder. They were once alive: and can be quickened again if we breathe our own life into them. But if we are wise we behave better than Israel did with the Canaanites. Have no pity on the whole race - down with them - or the Lord's rule will be hindered and impaired within us. Your big brother is also much endangered: his year 58 was worse than 57: all from turning again to what in all justice ought to have been killed in 56. It is easy to grow backwards: but it looks very ugly. Please grow forwards dear girl, or rather upwards: forwards I mean towards what is to come, upwards to the place from which the living seed has descended to draw us after our head. Be very simple in your accounts with the Savior: then He also will not circumvent you. Cursed be all our cunning and duplicity in dealing with Him! May His love be perfected in us. A hearty kiss
 from your Papa
