 Dizenbach 13 Aug 59
My dear wife

You see from this date that we have again got over part of our diverse journeyings. The holidays of the little fellows end with this week: but as the 2 elder ones have already to be at Bale on Friday evening, they all departed together on Thursday 2 PM. (11 Aug). They had great trouble to pack their things: you may fancy how they augmented at Stuttg. For each day good behavior they got one Kreuzer, hence Paul went to buy a musket, Dav. a horn to blow, Fred. Stramin paper to work bookmarks etc then came the presents, tumblers with their names engraved from Rominger, also a Guinea pig etc. Sam. got me to give him money for buying light coats: even at the railway station Mr Riehm (H's friend at Rominger's) brought travelling bottles for the 3 fellows, filled with cider. They all felt the separation, Paul burst into tears, David kept up his courage. Fred. had become very intimate with me: sitting by my couch and making his bookmarks with exemplary diligence. One of these made for you ("Watch and pray") I gave to uncle Frederick as a souvenir. He poor fellow does not feel benefitted as before by his stay at Canstadt: I left him there yesterday ready to depart today for Neuch. A young man Perrin who came with him accompanies him back: I think also their money began to run short. Uranie is not better: I suggested to try the Wildbad instead of Baden, in which case Fred. would return with her and visit the Stuttg people on his way to Wildbad. Yesterday 11 AM I went away to Geisslingen by railroad, from thence by a post chaise. Diz lies near the river Fils in a rather elevated valley surrounded by mountains with rocky fronts and crowned with some old ruins. It is not a fashionable place. The 12-13 people who are now here for drinking the water are mostly from Stuttg. No foreigners. No amusements no books. Such as are strong, make longer excursions. I write this after 24 hours spent at the place. It seems to me the water is good for something and with the Lord's blessing may give me a lift. The Roman Catholic padre was today at the table. One of the ministers who sat with him at dinner talked about a Protestant service for tomorrow, but I have not heard who will be the person to undertake it. The country here is altogether Roman - crucifixes, chapels of Mary, and Nepomuks standing on the bridges. But my mind is not stirred up as Paul's was. I keep very quiet and read my bible.

I hope you also have a good and not too noisy time: I wish you to be free from the crowding together of guests. What has Beuttler done with my horse? Has he paid? Then send the money to Mssrs Arbuthnot and Co. He ought also to pay 9 Rs for the Mercur to Moerike or Fritz, who ever is nearest. This ought to go to Pfleiderer. - David has a special love for sister Emma: if I had 1000 lives I could give them to thee, he can say. Paul runs to every piano and tries it most patiently and devotedly. Fred is quite happy with Ladies work, and his Papa near him. I think you will find him stronger when you come to visit them. Now farewell
 Your HG.
