4. Off Ratnagiri 17 Apr 59

My dear wife

Yesterday I posted at Vingorla a letter about our doings at Goa. We reached about noon Glasson and others went on shore and walked to the Bazar tried to get a bandy found none except the Parsee's who is Agent of the Steamer. Placed themselves in it and drove on. The P. met them and told the coachman to halt. Gl ordered Viran who sat near him to push him down and drive in his stead, which glorious feat was performed so that they reached the shore in time for our dinner. About 5 o'clock PM we took up the anchor and tried to push on, but the wind was dead North and very strong, therefore slow progress and disagreeable night. Also my bed got wet but I slept afterwards in the blankets quite well. It being Sunday I had a service - Come unto me all ye that labor - hard on account of wind and carelessness of most hearers. Made it short - Dr Harrison very nice after it. With Gl I have even less communion than at Cal. because he finds others more congenial. The Harrison's children full of heart, very different from Miss Holloway who is often with me, inquisitive and interesting, but always interrupting my stories, whilst the elder of the Harrison's listens most attentively and reminds me again of that "Jofes" (Joseph). - We shall probably halt for the last time at Ratnagiri but nobody knows the Capt's mind beforehand, even himself hardly. This night the Italian dance who had shown the people about him his diamonds etc was robbed of property worth about 3000 Rs - no steps taken that I see for discovering the thief. It is also difficult with more than 200 people packed like herrings on the deck. It is a strange life just tolerable, but nothing agreeable in it. With all this my health makes repid progress. I donot think I could have done at Cal what I did at Goa and all the food seems to agree, even the black tea without milk, which I drink faute de mieux. Well it will be over some of these days. If the wind is strong we shall pass the night in shelter under the highland of Ratnagiri. Then we could not hope to reach Bombay before Tuesday morning. But all will come right. The Portuguese Ladies and Gentlemen all sick and absent from dinner. Biran this night once sick I never sick, strong like Hercules etc 
Adieu dear wife and M
 Your HGdt
