 Calicut 17th May 59
 <mit Beilage>*
Dear Papa

By this time you are near France. Mr Grant told us of the late telegram announcing war, it troubled me a little for your pasing through France; but G. said O Mr Gundert will pass for an English man and go his way very quietly.

On the last April came Bira to whom I gave a present as he said he could not see you before leaving though you had asked him to come. He lost all his things in the steamer by the storm. Our poor old man from Bombay your old mooshi's relation lost also all he had by a Patima on which he had put his books and other things for 200* Rs worth. He could not get work here and has returned to Bombay with his daughter who did not like to stay here without her father. Mrs Amman and new born girl are well.

Mrs Diez suffering of a deasees of the woomb, still at Tellicherry under the Dr's treatement.

Mrs Will wites full of courage she seems to be much better and chearful. Mrs Hoch very weak. Pauline Moeg writes. she asks about the Sauvains what might do them good for the spirit; how she should deal with her; Pfleider and Hoch have been at Mercara.

6th May nice letters of the little ones Mr Meuret gives good witness to Frede and David, Paul very lazy told frankly to Mr Moere "one does not like you because you are too severe"

8th Mr Grant told us that by the Gazette Mr Garthwait had got a month leave. Grant will write him about the pay of the Pions and writer. What a curious man he must be giving news to no one not even to Thompson who paid his Vandies man and cares for his Samana. Mr Thompson not well troubled with the Malabar has gone to Mysore.

9th visited Mrs Grant who sent her Vandy for me Mama and little girl are doing well. by that storm 2 English ships were lost they knocked at each other one of them loaded with coolies who were almost all lost. the Capt or mate who had escaped under a little cottage was in a short time covered with its wals under which he died.

10th Dumingo came to ask after the papers or letters sent to the new Inspector to have them sent to Madras. Mr Holloway has been invited to Madras by the Governor "He left highly spirited and full of joy and expectation" says Grant. Cook "says very proud and high minded" It is good he had to leave this place; for during the lady s absence he might have got in bad companies, the young officers are said to spend the greatest part of the nights in drinking and playing. Mr Fritz visited G. Thomas who was still sleep at noon having gone to bed too late Fritz has been for many days undecided whether to go or not at last he goes to the hills. Convert very ill humoured and cross.

11th Mr Grant told us that Mr Krishnayen Shmid successor had been appointed to act for Garthwait; having not yet heard from any one about his work he waits for orders. the leave of Garth will be almost over before any thing be done, all the official papers and letters will then have to come back from Madras. Major Carr has sent The Gospel in Burma fine work, parts of it in malayalim might do much good. Mr Bates has come back as Deputy Collector highly pleased of his high office

13th Fritz evening left this for the hills, his two gils feeling as it were that he was leaving them hung on him till after 8 Julie even after 9 called for him who appeared once more in the roon to give the last kiss saying I go to bring your sister Adele and so escaped from her. He will write you from the hills, he was pretty well the last days and almost repented to have sent off his things by coolies before hand.

14th Mr Krishnayen came to take the box. He opened it before me and I took what was meant for Garthweit your private writing to him. The two pions and writer followed their new master!

Letters from our dear sons witten in April full of expectation about your arrival. I am much with you in the spirit and pray for a real and lasting blessing by your meeting together. Give also my thanks to dear Mrs. Huber Phar*... for her letter I shall answer afterward Mr Hoch writes from Mercara that his wife is very weak troubled with diarrhea. he asks me what I think of Miss Will whether she perhaps would not now accept George Kolb He wishes to mary; but have no one for him. The Lord has perhaps made all other hopes to fail to bring them together. I have answered Hoch that if they charge me with a commission to Missy I would do it; it may be she will accept and be happy with him, I thought you would have no objection to this?

Hoch writes "I feel quite sorry to miss your dear husbands scraps, love to him and let us know much about him. Gumpertz tells me that Nancy is going to Madras to see her son and put that native boy into the free Kirk school. Carr is again in the field Mr Jenning s regularly attends the meetings but does not think him in earnest, Handibo is not getting on as well as he should wish.

Mr Convert very humbly begged me pardon to have been so cross and ill humoured, he was not well in body and in soul, do not mention my having written about him. It is extreemely hot at night perspiration running down with all windows and doors opened.

Pfleiderer brought the jungle fever and takes quinine, Mrs Diez must go to the Hills. The Stout Macklin in Vitry* died of fever. Fritz children are nice more obedient than when he is present We are by Gods grace all well and happy in our precious Lord and father Love to the dear sons and others  Yours J. Gundert
