<Mrs Gundert, Calicut, via Madras, par Marseille <to Mercara>* 
 Bale 1 July 59

<love to the brethren>

On the 24 June Uncle Breunings had their silver marriage which the sisters celebrated with garlands singing etc I had to spend the afternoon there and saw the friends and relations I hope to some purpose - after I had with Mama Jette etc drunk my Coffee in the morng on the Silberburg. 26th Sunday at Basle. Baptism of a Negro girl in the great hall of the Mission - rather formal in the questions that were put and in the answers given. Diner etc with Ostertag, Emilie Kruse served at table - I had to relate of Marie etc They take the greatest interest in her. Perhaps she likes to hear that I came to Basle with a sister of her Anna Weiss, a Michelian, but learnt only that A is at St Didier or whatever the name may be. 27th dined with Miss-[ionar]y Huber and F Müller at the Huber's, afterwds saw Blumhardt who remembers you with much affection. Pfleid's bride and Mrs Albr live with me at the Kinderhaus. Also Hoch's mother came there for a visit to hear of her children and grandchildren. 28 Jewish Mission - and preparation for what I had to speak on Wednesday. This the 29th was the great day when Insp reads the annual report. He laid great stress on the progress achieved in Afr. and the standstill of India, I thought more than his numbers bore out. They had doubled the Afr Missionaries whilst they sent only scanty reinforcemts to India. Malab is said to approach now the crisis which Canara has gone through in the latter years. After 3 hours of report reading I had to speak, which I did on the grounds of good hopes for India. I left the Missionaries unnoticed, but mentioned the first fruits gathered, the martyrs at Delhi etc, the helpers in people like Gompertz etc, the doings of Govt in educ[ationa]l matters etc. Lechler then brought a salutation from the Chinese Church, spoke in very fluent German. In the evening the new Mission house was dedicated by Mr Kündig in a very good speech and prayer - the roof is nearly complete. Deggeller whom I met is very hearty and nice: I am sure the Lord will yet use him for some work. 30 June General Conference in the Martin Church. The unity of believers in Christ was deeply felt by all in the face of the storms brewing over Germany etc I said also something about the relations between the diff[eren]t Miss[ionar]y Soc[ietie]s in our Presid[enc]y and how the Leipzigers seem to desist from their aggressive policy. In the afternoon Martig (for Chin) and Reinhardt (for Ind) spoke before their ordination - rather talkative men full of what they have experienced and felt, little power of the word as it appeared to me. Ostertag addressed them very forcibly, warned of pride (not like the Germ brethren in Amer. who dislike the revivals and lecture the Comm. in different ways). Blumh also spoke very nicely and communicated the story of the 2 Cal. Catech boys, of which you had given me the commencemt. This 1st of July I saw old Zeller at Beuggen (81 years) who was quite astonished to see the 2 sons as Miss[ionar]y Aspirants. Many other friends some of whom ask after you - also Bossh's pastor Breitinger, Hausmeister, who greets Fritz, also Boegner and Kunz fr. Strasburg: a young Bovet from Boudry etc I thank God for all the love existing already.

 Farewell
 Your HGdt
