 Stuttg 20 Oct 1859
My dear wife

I am glad you wrote so soon to Mrs Mögling about that anxious question <(Hodges Harriet)>* and will now wait how the Lord brings light into all our confusion. - Your news of Heb is astonishing. I should rather like the idea of his visiting Germany, only I fear he will hardly come back. Major Selby's wife urged the Committee to call him to Europe for a season (thro' Marc Spittler who is at present in Engld) You ought to have mentioned by what passages Heb. proved the hill's devil to the Bishop's satisfaction. I can hardly think of any scripture which would suffice to convince an English bishop of such a doctrine. - I am glad that little Perpetua is at rest and hope she leaves you now also at rest. I mean that she does not trouble you like Nevis and other spectres of a past time. Take her name for a pledge that she is not passed away in vain, but has a happy perpetuity where children are taken care of with more than a mother's love. - I have lately visited our burial ground, saw where our Nanele was laid, and father's grave. On the latter we sons have erected a simple stone stating his name with birthday and date of death, and at the same time grandmama Mohl's. - As for Cannanore I know nothing new; and in all my uncertainty about the date of my return I think it best never to trouble myself about it. God will direct our steps. I can however say that I am truly benefitted by the water girdle and wish I had used it already in the summer instead of taking Dr's stuff. I hope we shall see each other again at the right moment and find cause to thank the Lord for the past time of separation. Surely He does all for our best. - Ask the Lutyens if they pass through Switzerland to come and see me. I hope to spend the winter at Bale and may proceed there within about 10 days. Bertha at Esslingen had a 2d boy some weeks ago - Yette has gone to Kaltenwesten for a visit. I see her often and find that her pupils profit with her. She had hitherto charge of the children of a Lievland noble man. Now they have been confirmed by Knapp and Jette's task is done. She goes to refresh herself at Kaltenwesten before she takes a new charge. - If Elieser wishes it, I think he ought to be separated finally from his wife. F Müller has heard that Paul's son was to marry Phoebe. But how can that be if the former is to come to Bale as I have been told. - I hope you find things progressing at Chombala and can give good news of Diez, his family and work. Perhaps you visit also Tell. and Cann. where Mrs Schlunk will be able to speak with you and tell you how she found Mlle Lavangis etc. Give us then some news of them all and likewise give them our Christian love. Farewell May The Lord give you all the strength you need  Your HG
