 Calicut 1 October <59>*
Dear Papa

Last week we had no news from you now that steamers go weekly or twice a month from Bombay we may get news quicker. On the 24th Sept Marie left with the Diezes for Kodacal where they spent the sunday. Marie writes of the delight she had there of the good behaviour of the little baby. The Diezes came in on the 21rst. We at once began to wean the baby, on the first day she was very obstinate and fell asleep after having cried would not dring the canji; but the next day hunger brought her round and she drunk and behaved as if she had forgotton intirely her Amah; from that moment she went on very well; so the Diezes were glad to take her I too of course. 
But what people are those Diezes with traveling no less than three Carts for their Samana <Gepäck>* and Marie a box in it and one or two for the Irions. I spoke to him about it also for feeding his servants the whole way instead of batta for which they <servants> are not very thankful 
I was very sorry the other day to find out that our dear Marie is still troubled with that love story which happened on the Steamer I fear it is partly the cause of her becoming so thin and having so little appetite, She felt some what displeased at your last letter written after having arrived at Dizenbach, it was so short and so dry. I told her that I believed you were not well; for an expression of your letter made me to think so Dear Marie is very nice with me and helped as much as she could! I told her freely my thoughts about her being troubled on that miserable subject, still I pity her, for even in dreams she is now and than plagued by the devil about him, though she trys not to think of him in daytime and prays about it.

Tomorrow we expect Boshart and Burcard since you left we had almot no visitors, but the time will now began for them

<27th> It is four P.M and the land wind or long shoar wind blowes still; many people have fever. The Cholera is not increasing rather the contrary. Converts accounts are good that is to say for house and school there remaineth; for school very little; house more; (but entre nous) il dit que Fritz a peu d ordre dans ses contes: Strobel went on riding to Kaity once* after which he felt the pain again in his back; if it continues there is not fair prospect for him in this country. The old Manuel Abraham's father came with his wife and four children from Trichenapoli, where he has served: on the road Hebich's Henry joned them They looked as if they had a mind to stay here and seek for some work; but Convert was short with them and sent them off to Cannanore; they had nothing to live upon, had passed a month at Palghaut. I also felt as if I could not help to keep them here! Marie writes from Tirtala that the road was very bad, she felt thankful to have Diez along, also in the Bangalo which was filled with Gentlmen they were all well except Ann who has every day a new complaint even a yellow pain as she told Marie on the road. Did I tell you that Miss Hodges gave happily a basket to K. The Hodges have not yet come in the low country. I am thinking of going D.V. to Tellichery for some weeks after Fritz return say in november perhaps. I have plenty little boils as you used to have. 
<first October> I just hear from Fritz, Strobel is better preaches twice a week at Coonoor, expects a baby next month, The last sunday Heb spent in Madras he preached three times the place much crowded; this I heard by Mrs Muller. At Kaity a baptisem of eleven souls 5 adults 6 children all Baddagers. Fritz feels better; still the Dr advices him to go home, Adele recovers of the yellow sickness "la jaundice" his little ones here are well thanks to God for this mercies to them during their papa's absence. Here all is as usual not much sickness, To day Marie is I suppose at Palgh for two days it pours down as if we were in heavyest part of the monsoon. 
Now dear papa it is time to close this that it may not be too late for the post in Bombay I hope to hear tomorrow from you I might have heard to day; but no mail from Madras as yet

 With love yours
 J. Gundert
