 Calicut April 12th 59

Dear Papa

Mr Fritz has just come from the steamer where he had accompanied you, he says you are very comfortable in the first place; the second was but a miserable hole. I am glad they persuaded you to take one place in the first. After you had left I percieved that I had forgotten to give you the umbrella, which I regret very much as you will have perhaps to walk in Bombay ore else where. I am sitting comfortably in your room which has become mine since the children are now where I was, Julie is fevrish and cross. The Lord is good to me and very near, I trust you have grace to speak words of life to some on board! 14 thursday letters from the dear boys Samuel's one very nice. Her. full of feeling it will be good for him to see you and hear of realities and substances instead of feelings, experience will make him de sens rassis and cooller. May he be work for the Lord as he seems to be for creatures

No news as yet of your successor Mr Stanes and sister laugh a good deal at him. I am rather anxious to see the man!

Fritz is going this evening to Kodacal. Mrs Irion had an attach of Cholera, but is well again. The Strobel at Coimbatoor she is better still fever is going on. Mr Addis very poorly too with fever his son too not well 
Miss Scudder is a tender soul very nice. Mr Stanes's palpitations very strong by time, they will leave us on monday very early. We are all as usual a few girls have fever Samuel not yet come from Tellichery I long to hear how you are. May I not be washing the flanells when my Lord comes; but quite ready to go with joy. We are with you in spirit Adieu
 yours affectly J. Gundert

1Here I send some stamps for Frederic they were found in your table 