Mrs Gundert <Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay>1 paid, <Coonoor>* 
 Basle 17 Nov 59
My dear wife

The other letter is for dear Mögling, please send it on I wonder you wrote nothing of the 17 miles of railroad opened in Malabar on the 5 Sept. The newspapers say that the signalists when they saw the snorting horse come on, ran away however much they had been drilled before. Did I tell you to order that the Athenaeum for which I have paid to the end of the year be stopped? You will get one to write it to Madras as I have no mind to keep it any longer. On the 10th regular ice began to make its appearance, and today we have snow all about us. It is the farewell day of Mrs Mohr who leaves 5 children to follow her husband to Africa - accompanied by Mr Klaiber, a cartmaker for those stations. She feels the farewell very much. - Yesterday I got letters from Stuttg enclosing one from my brother Ludwig to his son Fritz. It is a short notice of his continuing to take interest in him and the family, although he does not write as long as he is unfortunate. Whenever happy days come he will be ready to show them his love. Poor fellow he waits for a sudden fortune - meanwhile seems to neglect his soul and body - but still he is alive. It is many years since he has written a line: so I take this as a cause for gratitude. May the Lord still find him: he is indeed unfortunate.

It is time to conclude The boys have nothing today but send love to you both Also from Stuttg plenty love - Emma Mama Aunt all want to be remembered to you

I hope you get this by the Bombay steamer - the next time perhaps you can say whether Fritz is coming. I hope he will resolve upon this as the better plan. My love to him and the brethren

The Lord be with you and Your HG.
