Miss Gundert, care of W. Stanes Sqr, Coonoor, Stamped

 Calicut 17th Oct <59>*
My dearest Marie.

Yours of the 12th I received yesterday, along with one of Mr Fritz from Coimbatoor, after I had read yours, saying I dont feel very well have headach I began Mr Fritz' one in these terms "Marie is not quite well; but Mr Stanes assured me it was nothing but from the effect of the change, she had taken oil and he hoped that that was enough to set her right again, the horse returnes to day. hither to she had the use of Mrs. Stanes poney, she and Miss Scudder seem quite charmed with each other and I think the stay on the hill will do her good" Now as I felt some what uneasy about your health I stupidly mistook "charmed" for alarmed it fell like a lightning opon me and* of course* unable to weep nor to bicare* I told Convert to Telegraphe to the hills to hear about you, he had read Fritzs letter and was surprised at my distress then I saw my mistake! You see how foolish I am, dear Marie! What made me so accessible to evil impression was a bad night; having been awaken after I had gone to sleep to give medecine for a man who was supposed to have the Cholera, Maria's big son; but it is not the case, people are easily afraid as it is very severe in the Jail 60 died there in a few days; but not many else where. Mr and Mrs G. send you love also all the people here. I hope this week we shall hear from papa! Do you keep your stomack in order?

You might also ask the Dr if you feel any pain or uneasiness. It may be the jungle fever is coming on, as you slept in a fevrish place!

Tell me all about you please? Now adieu dear Marie. To morrow is your birthday. perhaps I shall not write if we have new people

Love to all
 Your beloved Mama
 J. Gundert
