 Basle 25 Sept 59
My dear Marie

8 days ago I promised to write, now I am here just in time to catch the same post with which I had written to Mama. Plenty thanks for your details - I hope you are not annoyed with the decision I have come to for you. I have since heard that Staudt who when I visited him thought he was workg out the 4th basket for K<ittel>*, has at last succeeded in getting for him a Miss Eyth D[aughte]r of the Dean at Vayhingen. To my surprise I learn that the Mgl's without waiting for this answer have applied for Harriet H<odges>*. I only hope she says No otherwise she would be even in a worse plight than one year ago <(with Herre>*. Don't speak of this if you know it not from other sources. Dear M<ögl.>* seems to suffer often from great forgetfulness. But that his wife did not stop him in this proceeding knowg as she did that M had asked Mrs Kullen to send a bride for K is to me quite inexplicable. - Remember me to the Lutyens Cooks etc, I hope the latter are pleased with the substitute found for Th. - Harrison writes me that Mrs Holloway's child was very ill after reachg London and she herself had had more fits. From Glasson he had not heard, as little as myself. 
But you will ask - what news from home. Last Sunday I stayed with Reinh at Maichingen and heard him preach on the merciful Samaritan - He accompanied me next day to Böblingen where I was present at a theological discussion of the assembled clergy: but left them for Calw. There at Dr Barth's supper in came Sutter with his 2 sons on a blackforest tour. S. is quite the old pale thin man with even less than average power of hearing. Next day returned to Stuttg - visited Esslingen once more and Mrs Reihlen where Hausmeister lived - and yesterday left for Bale. Dr Werner whose daughter an Unterhaeusler is to marry Pfl. came along with his family. At Bale the 5 fellows received me with delight, and I distributed to them 3 pears and 5 Knakwürste from Stuttg. Mlle Lavangis Mrs Schlunk and others were at the table which was full indeed. More of them hereafter. Mlle L was glad to make M Monnard's acquaintance. Johanna Werner can speak Engl and French the other 2 little beyond their mother tongue. How will they marry Hunz at Mangalore, I wonder! His bride will hardly be able to say yes in Engl or German. 
This Sunday morning I went to the Kinderhaus the little fellows vary of course a great deal in their behaviour and their testimonials are not invariably good. Fred. tries so much to influence others that he requires now and then a strict hand to bring him back to his own task. Paul thoroughly open, often thoughtless and lazy. D. of course the most gifted and generous with the others. But now farewell Dear girl with a kiss from  Papa
