 Calicut 19th August <59>*
Dear Papa

Mats as large as asked by Mr Christ cannot be had here; by I hope to get them when Mr Fritz comes back or if Marie goes Rama who shall go as far as Medapolium and return may get them at Paulghaut.

Capt and Mrs Haultain passed here on their way to Coimbatoor to her father where she will stay for some time he who has leave but for a month will make a jump to the hills and back, they staed at the bangalow from where she wrote a note to us, and we went over to see them. they were both affectionate and nice; People at Cannanore going on well he said several soldiers daily in chapel Shlunk and Hanhart doing good in their meetings with them, Muller not very well, wants a change before going to Vinad! However the Mission there does not seem so certain; Capt Griffen who has been here some* in Thomas house told us that the young men of Vinad do not like to hear of a Missionary there; The old Sunderson Weslean who was formerly at Bepoor is in Vinad and holds the meetings at Griffens house. Where almost no one joins but the people of the house, He Gri. came with Thomas to spend sunday evening; but he spoke very little more like one who is still under the law. he came to accuse the old Mr Jones who is a very bad neighbour to him and treats ill his Griff people. Glasson business does not seem to go on well therefore speaks of returning to India in October.

Someone wrote from home that you are to be sent to Cannanore at your return. Hautain said that Col Young is coming out in October to go to Burma. I expected she would give us some news about the awakening going on in Shottland and Ireland; the British mesenger tells much of it; the work seems to increase in all classes and denominations.

Mrs Bean who takes still much interest in you says you are like Jesse going about with you five sons the youngest reddy David preparing for great work. 
Garthwaite gave 30 Rs for the school He is a fany man, she simple and afraid of too much piety. Fritz sends much love love to you; he intends returning in the beginning of October. He is better; but suffer still from indigestion

Thomas who applied twice for leave cannot get it, he acts still for Holloway an other one has been appointed for Malapuram. William is going to Mangalore to act for Mr Binny or Thompson. The Cooks must leave their house in Jan to make room for the soldiers The Chaplain Lutyens (who says that he like the german Missionaries very much only Hebich not so much) sends you best regards.

Convert has just heard from Fritz who does not come before Nov so I have time to hear from you about Marie Going to the hills. Dr and all the people advise him to go home, he is still unsettled. but presses Convert to get a wife.

Yours of the 15th from Corcelles just comes in hand. I expected the fatigue and exitement would retrograde the cure of your sickness I wait anxiously for the next letter from Stutgard where I hope it will please the Lord to restore you Do you not pay a visit to the dear Bloomhart if so give them my love. May you get many blessings!

Yours of the 9th before leaving Bale has not reached us as yet. I thank God our dear boys are in the Mission house. Adieu dear papa

 Love to all near you
 yours J. Gundert
