+ Mama an David (nach Sam's Abschrft)

 Calicut 20 März 1859.
My sweet David!

Once more I write you, before dear Papa leaves us to go to Europe. When I think of the joy you shall have DV. in seeing your dear Papa, I feel happy for you. You will not be displeased that Mama is not comming too; the Lord may perhaps grant me the joy an other time, for the present I have much to do and my health does not require exactly a change now.

You will be glad to see some of the playthings one has here and to eat some bashoe puts which Miss Will sends you with her love. We feel now very hot and would be glad to exchange a little of your cold wind with our warm one. Lydia remembers you still, she is glad of little Sarah Fritz who is here. How is learning and obedience going on? Is Paul quite well now? I send to my precious Fred and Paul much love and plenty kisses, to you too of course. I trust when Papa comes, he shall hear from your Papa Meuret, that you are brave, obedient children learning well. Papa has now become so expert in examination, that he cannot let one part without it and it would be very sad, if he should find you deficient. If Mr and Mrs Meuret can give him a good report of you all, it will help to make him well and he shall ask leave for you and give you many days of joy Now my dear boy, I say Adieu to you and your sweet brothers.

II Blättchen Datum wie oben. Mama an David (Papa schreibt oben hin: Geschrieben nach der Nachricht von Davids Liebe zu Achilles etc). My sweet Dav: I hear that you are a great admirer of some persons, who have been in their time famous in the world. I trust that one day the Man who has been in deed and truth incomparably great and mighty of oninspeakable valour of whom the great of this world were jealous and envious, will also one day become your admiration and only imagine, that like that one you may become just like him. One has but to look at him to study him and one is made like him. Do you know whom I mean? Have you begun to consider Him, that friend of children, who once took little ones upon his lap and who is now at the right hand of God the Father, calling still children and grown up people to turn to Him, that is to say, sit also one day in the Heavenly Kingdom. Oh my dear David and you Paul and Fred. that very great One friend of sinners loves you, wants to make you very great and partakers of his kingdom. Begin to look at Him! Adieu dear boys. Yours affectly
 Mama.

Vater auf demselben Blatt ....1 Wenn ihr dieß erhaltet, könnt ihr nicht wissen etc.
