Mrs Gundert, Calicut

6 Bombay 21 Apr 59

My dear wife

Yesterday Mitcheson came and I went with him to the British Hotel (Glasson) to Pen. and Or. Comp. Office took my place (880 Rs) and Percy M's in the same cabin, found a passport without trouble. Returned I found the Stanger's arrived. She had only been 1 or 2 days sick on board which gave her courage for the further voyage. The 4 children have all boils but are otherwise well. Perhaps they find a ship for Amer. direct. Today with Mitch. to French Consul for his Visa of Passeporte, then all about the Fort - fairly tired. Tomorrow Good Friday I am to have a Tamil and Mal Congregation of which I am glad. Easter with Mitch. on Butcher's Island where I shall have service with the sailors etc. I hope to be able to do a little by these unsought opportunities. Have not found an occasion to speak to St'<angers>*s and am doubtful whether I am to seek it. If it offers I shall try and be plain in love. But I hope he will feel by God's grace that he is not driven away by other's but has by his own weakness destroyed his prospects in India. Hauff wrote a nice letter agrees quite with what I said and speaks very lowly of himself, feeling that others might be much more useful than he. He is truly nice in his mind and I am glad the point has been mooted.

Very little else occurs to my mind So I will say Goodbye and wish you the presence of our Lord to keep you in his peace. We shall not leave before Tuesday evening and it might be Wednesday Love to all
 Your HG
