 Stuttg. 20 June 1859
My dear wife

On the 14th I wrote returned from Tüb. Nürt. and Essl. I did not mention that on the railroad I met for a moment Mrs Bührer's parents and Emily to whom I gave the 5 Fcs committed to me at Mang. E. looked very happy and rosy, the Papa did not know me but I was sure of his person chiefly because the necklace was wanting. 15th I ventured to go to the Bopser with our party and spent a happy evening there with F Müller and his Frederick: after I had talked a long while at the Miss[ionar]y working meeting in Emma's room. 16th I ventured yet farther, walked to Heslach and saw the Finkh's, and sat then with the good people who had accompanied me, over their Coffee in a garden. On our return I visited Mrs Süskind and the Burks, where I only found a sister of Mrs Moerike. Moerike's sister, Mrs Neff I saw in the evening: they are a nice couple. 17th rather tired, kept at home. But in the evening I looked in Haering's house for letters and got with the Basle packet your May letters for which many thanks. I dont understand what you report about the Mögl's. It seems that Sauv<ain>* has to go there or seek for a place elsewhere. I do not see that I have to say any thing in this matter. The Lord will arrange it according to his own mind. - I am rather glad if Garthwaite prefers going to the big folks, then you have less trouble. - I told the Comm. that Fritz was very weak and required a change imperatively. The best would be if he ... for a season first to the hills and then to Europe. The question what I was to do after my return came once up in a casual manner. I said Calicut Tellich. and Cannanore, all three might sooner or later require help, and I should be ready to be sent where the need at the time might be most felt. But I confessed that I did for a long time wish for a change of system in Malabar, and recommended the Comm. to have it carried out by the old brethren as long as they are on the spot. For myself I should be afraid of having to do so much with money matters and planting concerns etc and wish the Lord may help us out of it without too much trouble. I hear nothing of Cannanore, Hebich's proceedings, Strobel etc. please mention a little when you write. I am glad you are so contented with your little family: may you feel the Lord very present and helping you over every thing difficult. My Selams to Samuel, Rama and Ramen, also the other people when you see them. I should be very glad if Jacob quitted the Mission Service altogether. - 18. Aunt Emma's birthday. Plenty visitors, with whom I had a few hours - I trust not quite useless. I visited also Gaisburg, where my friend Leyrer is pastor. Herm. has sent a poem for the birthday wrapped in a very fine sheet of paper which I coveted in vain. 19. Trinity Sunday. I heard a sermon of Knapp which I liked better than Kapff's. Truly the man is still progressing though less fashionable than Kapff. The latter has visited me and invited me to speak at the Stuttg Mission Feast in Aug. I agreed to it. That I must also propound at the Basle Anniversary next week you will have heard. I had hoped in vain to escape the turmoil of this feast. But now I like to go there, so much do I feel the separation from the sons. David writes still most lovely letters. I hope to take my quarters near him.

Gustav's masters are not quite satisfied with him, he is rather indifferent to their interests and this after they have ransomed him from military service. He does not like being spoken to as I feel it my duty to do: is a great singer and goes to Concerts etc without minding much the countinghouse. Sunday evening. I was with Chevalier (= Haering) and saw Vietor of Bremen, the chief man of the Miss[ionar]y Soc[iet]y of Northern Germany. Much talk about the war and many different opinions. This morning our regiments left the Capital for a camp to be erected near Heilbronn. We had 2 soldiers quartered with us, one of whom was interested in our bible readings and prayers. I have some hope that he opens the ear to God's message. The other was dull to the ... but regretted leaving the snug quarters. They were treated like gentlemen; of their prowess they had but little opinion and would have liked above all to return to their villages. Within 5 days I hope to be at Basle and get another letter of yours. You will be glad to learn that my health is daily improving. No one believes that I have been ill of late. The legs are getting stronger. I write but little: visiting takes nearly all my time. Sister Emma is a dear companion. I believe she receives more cheering views of God's face towards her, than she had hitherto. Adolph writes like a young believer. I hope to see him in Sept. Theod will come in July. The Lord gives me daily what refreshes soul and spirit. With Jette I feel perhaps most communion. She makes steady progress. Dear Mama is very little changed in appearance: her mind is at rest in the Lord. Aunt Emma is also much more than we found in 1846. Mrs Kurr was a friend of Pauline's and told me what a wild girl she was, (walking about with one shoe on the day she first saw her future husband - during some solemnity at Esslingen etc). She seemed to wonder that such scapegraces should become laborers in the Lord's vinyard. Well - as far as I am concerned - I wonder likewise. Farewell now, the Lord be with you - Love to the brethren  Your HG
