Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Bombay
<Fritz and Moegling>*

 Basle 31 May 59
My dear wife

A happy week is gone and tomorrow I intend going on to Stuttg. Your letter arrived - plenty thanks - I can well see why my Telegramm was mysterious. I had mentioned Mr. Guiseler's accident (who came by steamer to Calicut, but did not proceed to Bomb on account of "an accident"!) On the 25th I saw Mr Legrand and Rosine Waser who loves you much. Then I had to salute the Committee who were kind. They found me much stronger than they had expected. I said that also my expectations have been surpassed. You will know that they would have paid my passage etc but I took only 500 Rs - You have 1000 Rs per annum for yourself and Marie during my absence. Then came dear Frederick (Dubois) from Cannstadt. We talked Engl the whole of Thursday (26th) after which he left for Neuchatel. He is much like you, requires encouragement for faith; his wife's relations try him much (they want to get his money out of him, which he wishes to leave to his children.) He was very cheerful with us, we prayed also together. He fears his liver will no more come right, but I think differently. The Lord may well* restore him. Fran‡ has no faith, Fritz <Fillinger>* professes no more to believe the bible. - Saw many other people. The Christ's and Sarasin's remember you in particular. - Frederick G. whom I had to exhort rather severely has today asked Mr Meuret's pardon for his continual opposition. Paul is selfrighteous Today when I told David how Jesus will one day prepare us a feast and then serve us, he was quite taken with it and exclaimed: Ach wie ist er so klein! Oh how lowly he is! Dined with Eckle's today - Insp told me many things about the 5 sons, which lead me in talking to them But may the Lord himself guide me in the best way. His name be ever blessed. Herm. is far from strict obedience takes a good deal of liberty with much nonchalance, has too little intercourse with the brethren of the Institution etc. The Lord will put every thing to rights. Love to you from
 Your HGdt
