 Stuttg 5 Jun 59
My dear wife

I think I closed my account of May with the account of our dinner at Ecklin's, all 5 together. Afterwards I went to a fine Concert of Haendels pieces, the first I heard since 1833 and I enjoyed it truly. Had much to speak with dear H. about all that concerns his calling. For a mere pious Student he is quite respectable and in some points exemplary: but there is a want of obedience and suffering hardship such as is required for the Miss[ionar-]y calling. The Lord whose he is will not allow him to seek good days for himself but show him what he will have to suffer for His name's sake. 1 Jun early the 2 boys accompanied me to the Terminus - about noon I was at Bruchsal, passed Maulbronn almost without recognizing it, awoke at Ludwigsbg from a nap, and when I left the carriage stumbled nearly over Mama sister 2 aunts Jette and 2 Miss[ionar]y ladies (Müller and Bühler). Had a quiet happy evening together. Mama and aunt little changed. Emma fancies she is not sinner enough to be able to believe in the Savior as her Savior, but there is that in all her manner which makes you respect her as a real child of God. Temptations seem hardly to have as yet beset her, she is very quiet of somewhat melancholy looking, but says always she is happy, and listens most attentively to every thing. You feel that God's word has great power over her. 2 Jun was Ascension day, heard a fine sermon of Kapff, and saw Muller's in the rooms where my childhood was passed. I think he is in his place and does good business. In the afternoon drove to Kornthal and delivered Percy into Pfleiderer's hand. Many friends there, esp. Pfleiderer's (of Mang) rosy bride Hanna Werner who was glad to hear of him and of Mangalore. She is very nice - Pfl had written to send her with me, but the Comm. may despatch her earlier (in Sept). Saw Staudt who was very glad to learn more of Marie. Says that Olga has much intercourse with students and proposes to them (for fun) several of Staudt's views and doctrines as themes for discussion and disputation. Repeats that she is dreadfully spoiled. Mrs Daur fed her 2d child when I entered - made a deep impression almost Madonna like. I gave her Marie's letter and present. Aunt Emma and Daur being present I could not get much out of her, but thanked for her intercessions with St. for the former pupil and could see from her manner that she had fought many a battle for M. Percy left me very unceremoniously - I hear that the day after he cut himself dangerously, opening an artery, which happily could be tied without much loss of time. Br. Gustav seen first today. Steady and nice looking, but thinks his time has not yet come and will wait a little longer. Won't promise to try for conversion. Sings well.

3 Jun. Saw Mrs Bühler and Sophie, who is blooming and quite cheerful, before their departure for Badenweiler. Mama still malade and troubled. Samuel's principals Beringer and Praetorius very partial for him but open to see his weak points, invite him for the vacation and ask me at any time to send them one of my sons for learning with them. J. Josenhans knows me at once, so does Rominger who entered whilst I was there. I thanked him for his patience with Herm. whom he loves truly. In the evening went to Breuning's garden by way of the burial ground where Nanele and father have found their resting place. Aunt Br. is I think very accessible and listens earnestly. 4 Jun. several visits chiefly Chevalier (Haering) who tells me all about the war. There is no doubt that Prussia is prepared for the worst and will fight to the last man. But Austria is in a bad plight and the Govt quite in the hand of the Jesuits. Our King feels quite young again, wanted even to be made fieldmarshall of the German army agst France. Aunt Beate died happy in the Lord last Saturday oncle feels very lonely, his son Gottlob is here, a strong Michelian, half drawn to me but watching my words somewhat suspiciously. I think him very solid but rather narrow. 5 June Sunday. Went to Winnenden as Müller thought I should find Dr Zeller ready for me that day. Stayed with Jenny's mother, where M. had a Wesleyan meeting. Zeller very kind, advised me to drink Dizenbacher water. I shall have to return to Basle for the feast (end of June) the Comm. want me to speak - Alas! for my cunning devices to escape from this task. The Insp. has ordered me up by a very short letter, and Zeller does not say No - Saw Mohr the African Miss[ionar]y (who now returns to the Goldcoast) and at Kornthal Krapff who is to be Spittler's great man at Crishona.

Returned from Winnenden (after speakg at a Miss[ionar]y meeting for 1/2 hour) with F Müller this morning, and will now conclude this letter. The Lord be with you both and all the good people at Cal. and elsewhere. Love from the 3 sisters here. I am very happy here, only the visiting is still a burden. My outward man has been rigged out in a manner perfectly unprecedented. Nobody believes me to be an invalide and people wonder why I have not gone to see them all the first day! Also the arrangement of my visits as performed every day is open to several censures. But I live still and hope to live more and more. With hearty kisses
 Your Papa.
