 Calicut 19th Oct <59>*
My dearest Marie

On sunday I heard that you were not very well headach I felt very uneasy. Now on Monday I got no letter tuesday none. I am so troubled about you dearest that I have a great mind to Telegram to hear what can be the matter. Oh my precious Marie do you not know how easily I am distressed, and much more about you than about your papa. Send me word I pay. if you cannot write ask your beloved friend who will I am sure do it for you. Had you been well when you wrote your last I would not mind to be two or three days without news; I am often with you in dreams and thoughts I know I have but too little faith and therefore am so troubled about; or perhaps rather I have not been kind and tender to you who are so full of affection and tenderness and have to repent it is indeed partly my case. Oh my beloved Marie. Yes so it is This morning as I was playing with Sarah I might have wept thinking that I must now be kind to stranger's children perhaps because I have not been as to my own. Do write to me and pitty me. 
Mrs B came to see me with Mrs Keunik, the first send much love was grieved to hear you were not well. Mrs K first appearance I like well she has nothing high and affected. Were you here you would be amused to hear me fighting continually with Garthwaite, both of them are for the second day sitting in the Catchery or cort <court>* to protest agaist an accusation of the Dobbie for 29 Rs due to him he said! You may imagine you would rather loose this money dont you then to sit in cort? and so would I He is furious towards natives, they are going tomorrow to Mangalore

Now dear good news from papa thank God perhaps this evening I shall also hear that you are well it will be a treat after 3 days to hear Adieu beloved Keep the letter which speaks of Moeg for yourself

 yours affect
 J Gundert
