Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Bomb 23 Apr 59
My dear Marie

As I cannot hope to leave this before Tuesday evening (26) I still expect a letter from home. It seems so long a time since I left Calicut and when I get a letter the news is probably only 2 or 3 days later than my departure. Well we must accustom ourselves to this state of things. I hope you pray also for your father that he may be kept from all temptation, all worldliness and coolness towards Jesus. If you know your own heart, you know also your Papa's - aus dem Fundament! For all hearts are equal in this that any thing and any person can in a moment become dearer and nicer to them than Jesus - and this is death and hell, however verdünnt. Therefore watch and pray - we are cheated every day out of some measure of eternal life which we might have enjoyed if we had been more watchful and more hungry. May the Lord be very near your soul and become daily more necessary to you. Then we shall thank him together when we compare again his dealings with us, after he has brought about our reunion. Peregr is said to be very happy, but I can hear nothing particular except perhaps that her husband is a confirmed batchelor and not easily changed from his old ways. I sleep better since I have again given up drinking tea, never to resume it if anything else can be had. Otherwise I am well and can move about much more than I did for months. Glasson sometimes expects a Telegramm from Fritz calling him back on account of registration etc. Of course he laughs about it, rather liking a ticklish ingredient in his affairs.
