 Calicut 16 June 1859
Dear Papa

On the 7th Mr Garthwaite paid us his first visit, his wife still at Bang will join him at Mangalore via Mercara at the end of this month. 8th your dear letter of Suez thanks to God to have brought you so far pretty well. We trust to hear soon from Kairo. I paid a visit with C. to the Cooks and Grant to get some help for the family of Salisbury. Cook gave ten Rs G. 20 and offers still for next month. The elder son has now got an appointment under the Deputy Collector so he may keep up the family besides the 3 girls which are at school.

E Thomas who acts for Holloway paid us a visit asked much after you Said also that he wished for a weekly meeting which I hope Convert will begin. Garthwaite acts for thompson this month who is still on the hills troubled with the Malabar. the present teacher is not liked. Your writer who came for news of you said "is this man to take the place of Mr Gundert he sighns himself not as acting, but as deputy Inspector is he indeed to stay? he has no manners ______________________________________________.

he has taken whole the pay while chrishnayen was acting for him, when teaching he runs about. boys do not understand him, if chrishnayen speaks to him he pays no attention walks about"!

G. takes tefen or dinner with us as he lives in Mr Thompson house it is for so he eats here in the middle of the day. Mr Arbuthnot told him that if he works 5 hours every day in his office it is quite enough.

Did we tell you of Mr MacLean's death she has also been taken away. where we dont know. You will be glad to hear that the report in the papers about our dear Capt Taylor is not true he is at Sadachigar I think. 
At last we paid a visit to the Miss Brown where I heard that they attend a meeting held by Mr Howell as the three brothers Brown were there I could not speak so I invited the 3 young ladies to spend a day with us which they accepted very gladly. Yesterday they came; one of them is a Roman; sister in law of de Silvas. the two other whom you saw confirmed listened pretty well one of them said that she had thought some time of the promise she had made before the bishop; but they are very gay and did not like to take too pious books to read. The Lady of the Manor they accepted I hope after this they may be interested in reading still

From Fritz pretty good news and the Strobel better too; but have no mind to return to Paulghat. Convert nice labours diligently speaks Mala very distinctly and well, he has happy time it seems. we are all well and things are going on as usual pretty well.

The two little Fritzes are well thank God. for which I feel truly thankful; for it is not a small matter to have so delicat children under ones charge. Sarah has I fear one leg shorter than the other She does not walk alone but is very fond of taking people's hand to be helped to walk. Gompertz wrote a letter to Hoch who sent it to me asking to have it forward to you and Mr Deggeller; as it is pretty heavy Marie will copy it as also a part of his (Gomp) to me about the book Major Carr sent.

Miss Will has refused J. Kolb; in secret one think that Shoch has an eye on her No letter from home as yet. The abundance of rain which falls is perhaps the cause the tapal is delaid. Samuel shall read Hebrews second Chap 14.15. vers that is my letter to Him for this time and to Herman Heb 3 chp 6.14. verses with tender love, to the three little pets I send a kiss for I suppose they care not so much for letters in possessing their dear Papa. Wishing you blessings for your self and other
 yours affectly Julie Gundert
