<Miss Gundert, Care of Revd W. Hoch, Coonoor>* Stamped

 Calicut <1 October>1 <59>*
My dearest Marie

Yours from Codacal came Tuesday at noon after I had sent mine to Pal. Many thanks for all the news. This evening you are at Tirtala. The poor woman from Moorate near Chombala came again to see the Collector about her child whom the father keeps; but here too she is condemned to leave him the child, she weeps poor thing! I hope you were pleased with the long letters you got from Salem? One night as I could not sleep for some time I felt much comforted in having grace to fix my thoughts on Abraham I saw Jacob. it appeared to me that those three different characteres are still exebited amongst Christians. There are many who wish for the quietness and comfortable life which enjoed Isaac, they do not observe that Abraham for his obedience and faith got his new name. So did Jacob by wrestling with God he got the name of Israel. So in heaven those who shall have overcome shall also get a new name, that name probably shall expresse the way they have followed their Lord here and what they are to be in that blessed kingdom. Are not the promises in the revelations to those who overcome sufficient to make us to desire and labour for such lot. Oh for Abraham s and Jacobs portion though in this world they had hard to go through. Are you happy dear Child can you leave the old things beside?

Our little ones who were ill are much better thank God. Felicita's boile has been open she runs about.

The Madras Mail brought nothing I am very sorry; We must wait 8 days longer.

Kindly tell Mr Diez that I beg him to give to myself what he has spent for you on the road and not to write it on the traveling expenses I do not want it written I will pay it to him myself. Make him to promise it, not to write but tell it me.

This evening Julie has fever; but I hope it will soon pass please God, I have not written home this week I wait till next month.

You remember that if you want any private money you ask to Mrs Moerike and I will repay it

Thursday I just received your from Tirtala for which many thanks. I am glad to hear you had come so far well. You will still have bad road because of the rain which goes on. Pour Ann she must learn to bear pain! I am thankful to hear the sweet baby is well. And how is your stomache? Have you taken oil or some what else? To morrow we except Mr. Boshart and Mr Bourcard from Tellicherry. I trust on Monday we shall get home letters if not on Sunday! Saturday first Oct as I came near the table I found a beautiful pair of slippers and a poetry. My sweet dear Marie hearty thanks to you from your poor old Mama it is indeed a great pleasure to me, much more than if you had given it me when I asked it. You also pray for me, dont you? I sent home one letter as there is no more time, I would like to have heard before sending but what to do, it must be in Bom before the 12th Yesterday I recieved yours of Ilani* I hope you are at Palghaut. it rains here trimendously. Miss Cook paid me a visit, the old Ayah will not go with her. I ment to send this to Coimbatoor; but it is too late.

As a steamer will in future go four times a month to Bombay and take the letters, you will have better to send me yours with the right addres to papa then I will enclose mine in yours. If papas hore is not quiet you should give him less gram. Fritz write that it is not so safe or quiet as the one of Mrs Stanes, give less Gram, not listen to the horsekeeper if he say no. Sunday 2d good morning my sweet child. You are at Palghaut I trust. it rains so much that the roads will be very bad. No letter as yet; but send this off that you may find it at your arrival. As soon as I get some home letters you shall get them. be not anxious, wait upon the Lord, this I say to my own heart which some times is unbelieving and rebellious. Love to all round you

 Yours affectionate
 Mama J. Gundert
