 Calicut <1-2?> August 59
 <mit Beilage>*
Dear Papa

On the 28th comes a nice letter of dear Jette telling about your visit and return to Switzerland. She says that one can not see on your face that you are ill or have been; but in your walk it is plain and visible that you are weak. We rejoice to hear that the Lord has blessed dear sister Emma with faith and Joy in the Lord, Her letter to Marie is like of one who has just found Jesus the Saviour your visit she will never forget. May you have grace for many more. I think specially after our children of dear Ernst! may his time soon come; for after all what can he teach without Jesus or to what profit. Our Lord is soon coming In the 14th of the revelation the crowd of 144000 are perhaps little children. formerly in reading it Boswell and Hebich were before me as of that number; but in reading again those are not sinners no guile found in them their song is not of praise to Him who redimed them. Our two babies are perhaps of that happy band! Has the name of the place Armageddon any peculiar meaning. I read this book with new delight and trust also it will profit me, What are not we to be in this world since we belong to that happy company who shall follow our Lord on white horses judjing the world, Overcome fight is our present work to him that overcomes all shall be given - it is true, how difficult to believe and act according to the chief difficulty I have to overcome now is my quick temper with the girls, to be gentle, meek, loving, reproving with grace I have not yet got!

2 Two girls are coming from Tellicherry it shall then be 64. I think every station where there is a lady, girls should be taught by her and places which are too far to go to eat as ______________ and others the Comity would have it cheaper to let every Sister give once rice in the middle of day to such as are far and go home at night than to fill the schools which should be for orphers and heathen only; for the girls themselves it would be better to learn housekeeping at home. The Lord has spared us either to from sickness. Nothing new among us no new life that I know. 
Mr Garthwaite makes you questions which some of the brethren might have answred here at least some. He is a fany man Grant says. "he is on the spring" when he spoke of writing to you I said he better take thin paper; but it is not very thin after all. More than a month ago he took the plates or belts of the pions saying he would ask the director to pay for them yesterday when I asked whether he had recieved the money for them he said "I have not yet asked the Director I am going to send the bill of my traveling from Madras to this and will inclose the belts." He has been rather disapointed to receive; but half of his pay and half for Thompson and will ask for the whole of his Inspectoryship. Mr Thompson who also expected as she says the whole of his pay and got but half is coming at the end of this month July to take up his work which Garth, was glad to do as long as he thought to get the whole of his own pay along

Fritz is some what better still uncertain it seems whether he shall be obliged to go home or not Mrs Hauf in a letter to me says her husband suffers patiently his repeated severe headach She has a second girl 
According to the British Messenger there is a great rivival in Ireland also some awakening in Edinburgh, men and women by hundreds ask what they are to do to be saved. I hope Mrs Young will give us some details about it 
The young Cambel is with us for a few days, he comes from the hills and goes to Vitry, he has not yet heard neither from his mother nor Glasson. He has heard Hebich preaching in Otti he lived with the Groves where Hebich came now and then. In Coonoor the Chaplain is against him. He went there only once to give the Lord supper. Cambel is a quiet boy who does not mixed with the world and knows not what people talk about Heb. who as he says "has much to do" he himself did not understand Heb's preaching he is dull and lifeless Convert is trying to speak to him. Miss Will writes that Elisabeth Charles wife died after having given birth to a still bon babe no one percieved her dying.

I hope to know your mind about Marie going to the hills in time before the bandy leave this Plenty rain our tank is quite full. 8hundred Rs will be more than wanted for Marie and me in a year. Convert speaks Malayalim very well and is very diligent at work in the congregation and schools Lauffer plays much less

In the 21 Revelation 12 ve the word gate is translated ______________ what is it in the original tower or a picular gate?

From Cambel I hear that Mr Hebich is now taking every day a little bear on account of weakness from which he seems to be some what pulled down! Mr Grant has just been here to ask you kindly to get for Mrs Grant one of the best Armonum He saw the one of the Church And desires such one and* be as good and as nice as one can get and he begs you will kindly send it out as soon as possible by the most expedient way perhaps by a German Chip coming to Cochin or as you think best. I asked whether he had any one in England who might forward it but he said no would rather leave it all to your kindness and as soon as he knows the price will give it here to the mission: The other day Convert said that Mr Broun would now sell the compound near our house he speaks of 2000* Rs. but very probably it will be much cheaper Lauffer thought the Comity will buy it. Is it right to spend much money for grownd and houses? if the Lord is coming soon as we have all reason to suppose would it not be better to send out as many missionary as possible learned or unlearned only converted peope to preach over the contry with out caring so much for gathering land and vilages of nominal Christians 
Marie will relate you of her pretty little schooler a parsie girl Dear Marie has a good deal to do and I could not do without her, she is becoming a real good helper and is very affectionate. She looks pale and eats very little. So I hope to have the joy to send her for 2 month on the hills where she may get refreshed and some appetite. I just receive your answer to the Moegling and Kittle <Kittel>*. Marie knows all and is glad of your decision I expected to be so, and am very Glad to have her longer here and am sure the Lord cares for her. Joseph whose wife has two sisters here, had work under Francis, one Day being drunk he went with a knife against Francis, he is now in prison, perhaps for all his life. Ebeneser son in Law of Esras*, has entered a tier's house with intention to comit sin with his wife the two men flagged each other, he is again to be put out of church and without work from Vedamutu

 Love to all
 yours J. Gundert
