1Rev H. Gundert
 <16th Dec>* <59>*

I wish I could say of Marie what you say of Her aiming at a whole conversion. This morning I spoke my mind to her, for it is evident to me and others that if she has been at all converted she has gone back much, her whole behaviour is not of a new creature at all. That old story <Barns>* on which she feeds is I think the cause of all the evil, I fear she decieves herself. I am sorry that she writes such pious letters as to make people to think that she is so full of the Love of the Lord Alas if only it was so; but the world and its lusts has too much power still on her. She does not consider herself free from Mr B for she has not given her consent to your decision, therefore waits for some thing farther, How could she with such thoughts prosper in the Lord, he B is the chief in her heart and affection, where is room for the Lord to work? I do not understand it what a confusion must be inwardly, speak of love to the Lord and stick to that old fleshly attachement! Oh pray much for her! that her delusion may be manifest to her. She speaks as if I was not abordable as if she could not open her heart to me. What am I to do, certainly I must stand for the truth and look to the salvation of her soul with out caring for the feelings and cries of the flesh.

From the Miss Philipp I heard that Mrs Frere had made Mr Holloway to promise that he would go on paying at Tellicherry the same money as they did to the poor fund, for the schools and mission though he was not pleased with it he promised to do it. He was much praised at Madras and probably he will soon be called there by the Governor, he opent one evening with the Robinson; but the whole time was filled with his own story, how he was liked, what praises he received etc he spoke so much about himelf that they were disgusted with him Poor man!

Now Adieu Love to the children thanks for yours of the 2 No kisses to the three pets for their letters. I rejoice to hear about Herman. 