 Diz 20 Aug 59
My dear Marie

Tomorrow I shall have again to preach, so do hardly know whether I ought to write yet longer. But as you gave me a long letter (1 July) I can't let you starve. Therefore some words. Don't despair about your Mal it will come tho' perhaps slowly, to show you that you must still learn how to bore hard boards. You wrote to me _______________ that was probably a mistake for ______- But never mind. From Brackenh there came a Mr Winter to invite me to Dehlinger's and ask about a Mission feast but I have declined as I do everywhere, since I had to retract my promise to speak on the Stuttg feast next week. It does not do for me to sit so long in a Church, and the very apprehension that I may have to go out makes me most uneasy and distracts me entirely. Therefore I do intend keeping silence till all be changed in my bodily disposition. - What I think of that first resurrection? The Micheles you know believe these stories as bible truth - I can only say, such occurrences may be true, but no one can prove them from scripture. I prefer to think that Script. in Rev XX and Phil. 3,11 (really: to the resurrection out of the dead) means to teach us, that a number of Christians will be distinguished by rising en masse at the coming of Christ, when some living will be changed (1 Cor. 15,52). But I cannot deny that there may also be a successive resurrection only I fancy that belongs to God's secrets. 
It is very true that faith makes God's chosen ones the happiest people of the world. You can also believe: for you have believed. What hinders you to be one of those happiest of the happy. Must only want it and you get every thing when it is good for you. What I think of the Millennium? Too big a question. Better to be answered by mouth than by letter. But thorn in the flesh? A painful nervous disease, as I suppose ophthalmia, which hindered Paul in his travels prevented him from writing with his own hand and made the Galatians in their first joy desirous of plucking out their own sound eyes to replace the painful organs of poor Paul. This also made his bodily presence weak and contemptible (2 Co. 10,10), he had them perhaps bound up or covered at times. But also other diseases (tic douloureux etc) may be supposed in which there is a similarity to the pain made by a thorn. - What I think of the war? The answer would be a long one. I am glad that I know nothing about the time or direction in which it will recommence. God teaches us to be ready for sudden changes and trust in His hand and heart. This we will do n'est ce pas? With a kiss
 Your Papa.
