 Coonoor 21st Dec 1859
 <S* 30/31 Janr 60>*
My dear Samuel

Your welcome note of the 8th No has given me joy, though your perceeding in English was still preferable. but I understand this one too. and your letters as well as Herman's become daily dearer to me. You are right to have our names written in the book of life is the chiefest, and this only is to give us joy. and we know that they are written not on account of our works; but in His great love. Doubt not that your name is there you are beloved in Jesus, as long as you cleave to Him in whom the father is well pleased you are safe, in Him only we are acceptable to God. You say you are not yet right, it is true you must become quite another man. Yes true. Those who are in Christ are new creatures. It is already true of you, in Him you are new and what we shall be is not manifested, but we live in hope. We are trasformed to His image by looking to Him as Moses was by speaking and staying with Him. Cabinet prayers is the thing with His Holy word which makes us most like Him. The prayer of Jesus has its power and we are sanctified by the word. The question is, Is that holy word the food I feed my soul with, is it sweeter to me than honey, is my delight in it: So that it dowelleth in me abundently, if so no fear, it shall sanctify us, and we shall confess that it is the power of God unto Salvation. Yea for our own souls and for those to whom we preach it.

You see that I am not alone at Calicut; but here on these fine mountains, I am truly delighted and thankful to the Lord for this time of rest and refreshment. We have a fine season, the finest in the whole year, the sun shining, morning and evening very cool. besides these we have blessings for our souls and meetings every week, love and communion among the children of God. We live in the hope that God will soon visit this country as he has done America and Ireland

With love your Mama
 J. Gundert
