 Mang 24 Jan 59
My dear wife

Yesterday Lord's Supper, and Heb. preached, interestingly but as Mgl said 1_1/2 hours too long. Taylor was there too. Gomp writes that 6 persons die every day, Mrs Dixon and Mrs Walker are recovering, but Handibo's lost their little girl. He bears it well enough, also she has grace given her to take it from the Lord. Gomp has meetings in Jenning's house drummers, soldiers etc attend gladly and listen much more anxiously than ever before. May God bring much fruit out of this affliction. The dying suffer only for a few hours, so soon follows the breaking down - the recovery is of course slower.

Fritz is quite recovered, but was of course pulled down for some days. 
David wished much to come out - Mrs B said but you do not like the ship - D. never mind that will soon be over, then I come to my Papa and Mama. Mr Meuret is stricter than Miss Culm. therefore the boys occasionally tell them, you are not like our own Mama. D. contends occasionally that of all Mamas his own is the best. Fred. also talks much of you, esp. since he has lost Miss Culm. of whom he was the favorite (after Jacob Ammann). I can quite understand why he is now ill tempered. Miss C. allowed him to jump upon her; when he went to School he ran and bawled through the whole house to find her for a kiss before parting. Paul is often grumbling now, because his liberties are curtailed. They formerly left uneaten what they did not like, now they must learn to take what is put before them. The noise which formerly was unchecked is now put down a little. They won't call Mr M. otherwise than Herr Pfarrer, tho' he wishes to be addressed as Papa. 
I should be glad if the Stangers got a place. They are very soft at present and have once more asked the Committee to take them! She seems to think of Chiracal as being now a place for them.

Now farewell. The Lord be with you
 and Your HG
