 Calicut 30 June <59>*
Dear Papa

Your two dear letters which came on the 27th have given us much joy, the one from Marseille we expected to get some days ago, but now it came with yours from Bale all right the Lord be praised for His kindness to you in the way and at home. May He bless you abundantly for the dear Children and others. giving you joy in feeding on His love. If He is as good to you as He is tu us you will have to praise Him and tell to all of His goodness and longsuffring. I trust you may find a good time with Mr Moeret to ‚facer your trespass of rules and propriety. The love in Jesus, makes all other things very small if they are not sin at least those with which we may be offended at others. We look forward for your next telling us of Frederic Dubois etc. Mr Garthwaite is as reported by Mr Grant on the spring. Convert had a long conversation with him in which he told Convert amongst other things that he must take some exitement Kriketts or what! Conv. thinks that he is not converted. Your writer is grieved to have been dismised; as G has dismised both the one at Mang too and has taken a Portugees As he wanted a teacher I recomended him your Ramen; but he said his pronunciation is not good he is a Cannanore man. So he took Converts one. He is to stay here one or 2 month longer here as Mr Thompson is not yet well, his wife is to come here instead of Mercara where he had made me to Telegram or rather he did it in my name to have her received by the Moeg or Richters. Mr Holloway at last has got some work at Madras as Secretary of this new.

From Fritz, I suppose you hear he is getting better, Thomas who acts for Holloway comes now and then and has asked to have a meeting poor Convert does not like it; but has invited to come once a week to take tea then we may have reading and prayer and some talk about the reading. 
Mrs West was here with her daughter and son in law Le Mesurier a rough and rude man who feels probably he has entered in a sad family. She has become very thin and has a sad look, She did not say any thing about their poor boy; but Mr Thomas said that he was in prison for forging papers. Grant said that he will probably be send out of the country The poor father is out of imploy and still he wrote a note to Mr Grant to care for his wife who was to come from the hills, he wrote to me too, they loged in the Bangalo and spent the day here; both were dressed less elegant than usual. 
We were truly agreably surprised on getting your dear letters for we did not expect them so soon, Marie and I had said perhaps 7 days more and we get from home; but we did not think you had reached so quickly. Now He who has done so much either to for you will also restore your health we trust and bring you back to us in His good own time.

In church history I have come as far as Luther with the girls it is no more so difficult as before. Lydia's Sister the eldest and last has also come, she was kept by the same bad woman for evil purposes. She is very lean and looks miserable; but has it seems a gentle disposition.

We are by Gods grace all well and every thing as usual. Lauffer has charge of the weaving during Fritz absence, he plays piano often and gets on quickly it seems. Marie too is playing more than formerly.

Mrs Diez has returned to Chombala from Tellicherry, After the monsoon she will have to go to the hills or Mercara

Your Ramen has just come he says this man <Garthwaite>* has _______________ ____________________ if he had not dismised me I would not go with him to Mang. he told his pions Inspector's pions must learn to walk even 50 miles a day, he has gone to Paulghat to met his wife who is coming here in Mr Thom house, he has already enough of C.s teacher he has not a good prononciation. A Telegram just come to say that the Steamer from Calcuta was wrecked on the red sea many lives lost. One of our letters will be lost by it thank God you were not on it. Love to all yours
 J. Gundert

Miss Will speaks as if of late the Lord had worked in her, she begs pardon to you and to me for her ungreatefulness and want of love she is a wretched creature She feels her sins and is truly humble
