 Stuttg 8 Aug 1859
My dear wife

On the 6th I received your welcome letter of the 16 June which gives me the first intimation of my successor's arrival. I do not wonder at some of your remarks - but I think Rama ought to know by this time at least that G. is not merely acting for me. I should dread the idea of again entering Govt Service. That is an experiment tried so fully that my mind may well be made up, quite apart from the resolution of Govt which has done with me. You will have learnt that I could never write from Cairo. Marseilles was the next station after Suez, because even at Malta I could not catch the intermediate mail. - I am glad you got something for the Salisburys and trust they are now provided for. - Has Holloway got an office and if so, a permanent one? - We all rejoice that Taylor has been spared. May he yet live to sow the good seed he has received. - You never mentioned what Strobel's illness was. Today I hear from Fr Müller (thro' the Albrechts at Francfurt) that he had a fall from his horse and was expected if spared to return to Europe. His wife was known to have been long in very poor health. I fear we have of late got several very delicate ladies into the Mission. One is also reported to have written for some Crinoline (!) to the amazement of simple brethren. Do you want any? Then please order it through me. I am rather glad that Miss Will refused the offer made to her <George Kolb>*: for it is really unbecoming that the wife should pay part of the husband's expenses for the family. I wonder whom Miss D. <Däuble (?) (Braut von + Camerer)>* will get. The Finkh's are much displeased with their son for choosing her. If they could they would gladly undo it. But who can know in these matters what is best! I am glad that I have nothing to say to it. - Our little fellows are careless now about writing - they lament that the vacation is passing away so rapidly - only 2 or 3 days left. I hope they will afterwards write to you more regularly, but then they ought also to get some letters. Your best plan would be to dictate to Marie who would write in German, whilst you sign. - The 4th Sam's birthday: he got many presents for which there is still a very childlike (or childish?) craving - not with him alone. In truth our boys would be spoiled if altogether brought up in this house. You can fancy how they like it. Meuret is already afraid how they will submit again to the discipline of the Kinderhaus. Fred. is now most tender and attached to me. The change of Miss Cullm. and the Meurets had upset him dreadfully - a bad conscience made him also queer towards me in the first weeks or months. Now he makes booksigns and all sorts of things most diligently - sitting near me and carressing me whenever he thinks he may leave his work for a time. His progress in Latin is trifling - Fred. Müller is years in advance of him. On the 4th Reinhardt took me with the little ones to Maichingen - whence we returned early on the 6th (H. and S. walked) I had a nice quiet day there, Marie is also remembered in love. The afternoon of the 6th we visited Br. Frederick in the Wilhelmsbad. He is still suffering and has since taken a horse here to ride every morning. Fran‡ois is expected in Sept and Fred. may have to take his plan in Sept or Oct at Newyork. His agent leaves him nearly unprovided, so he will have to look to his little property. Uranie is at Baden near Zürich evidently suffering from gout. May the bath do her good. I think of taking Fred. with me to Boll to see Blumhardt. - This morng 8th Theodor left with his wife and "Helenchen" a dear creature very like our Nanele. We had nice times together. He is a real brother, and Johanna a sister who helps him. I think she will also like the retrospect of this their (5 week's) visit. - As soon as the boys are gone I leave for Dizenbach from which I hope to write next time. Health pretty good, but not as yet steady improvement in strength: I like therefore to have a time of complete retirement. The Lord will make it all right. Farewell. Love to the brethren
 Your HGdt
