Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Madras1
2. Neue Anschrift, von anderer Hand.
<Coonoor, Nilgherries>2

 Bale 9 Nov 1859

Love and kiss also to Marie and remember me to the brethren

My dear wife

Last Sunday when the 5 were around me, in came somebody from the Comptoir and brought your letter of the first Oct. The little ones were delighted to receive your letters, each one his portion, and the 2 big fellows were pleased with theirs. I have to thank you for all the trouble you took to write so soon again. It is of course not plain to me how the letters have travelled, as I always sent them via Bale and the boys may now and then have delayed sending them on but I have at least written 4 times in the month and hope you will get them all in proper season. I am glad Marie had company to go with, otherwise I should not have liked the idea of her venturing upon such a journey. Now I hope she will have reached the hills and recover her appetite: I dare say she will even make a verse or 2 upon the scenery, which I might have done likewise if I had seen it in her years. There is no doubt I may have been dry in a letter to her, but I don't remember it, and you know I cannot always command a flow of feeling, chiefly when the time is short and the mind beset by perplexing subjects. Not that I have much to do with such, but I feel that I cannot shake them off as easily as in the years of strength: As for that other subject I prefer making it a part of my prayer to thinking or writing about it. Though I might be sorry for the part I acted I could not mend the matter by anything I might undertake. So I leave it in God's hands.

The account of Moerike's baptism has been very refreshing. It came just in time for the Inspector to make use of it for the Miss[ionar]y meeting, held once a month. After all I think he is again more favorably disposed towards India than Western Africa. In the latter stations there is still much confusion. It seems also in money matters they deal very freely. A Miss[ionar-]y lately returning to Africa with his wife took a first class place in the railroad - In Würtbg I have seen Ministers of state contented with a second place. Also Mr Brown says that the African accounts are very confused, whereas Pfleiderer's are nearly perfect. Süss one of the Missionaries has again left the Society because he quarrelled with the brethren, and supports himself and family with planting, trading etc. But one difference in favor of Africa is that letters, reports, contributions to the Museum, pictures of believing (and unbelievg) natives and all sorts of things are continually flowing in from those stations in rich profusion, which helps to keep them and their wants continually before the Committee. Our older brethren are getting too dry and Laconic in their communications. I hope Metz will bring from the hills all sorts of remarkable things and let Fritz do the same from Malabar. - No news from Hebich. I nearly fear he will avoid Bale - or does he wait till the Comm. press him to come? I think he would be much better here than at Cannes, (where perhaps he lives with Mrs Sandemann's relations).

My abode is still in the Mission house. Meuret has not invited me this time. I go however there once or twice a week for dinner and meet the boys on their way to school. David comes often to me. He visits regularly the Miss-[ionar]y meetings and finds easily a way to come and see me once a day or every other day. On Sunday I made them read English hymns and sang some with them. "Praise God from whom all bl" - came at once readily to their lips and they liked the old tune with the words. But in general it must be confessed they have become quite unEnglish pronounce badly even what they have kept in memory. Today I dined with Marriott, Hoch's brother in law, where I feel at home. Yesterday saw Marie Fritz a little who is well and makes good progress. Huber is at Lausanne and has written to Inspector about the strange acts of the Neuchatel friends, who seem resolved to aid the Paris Society in the first place and will also have a Mission school of their own. Huber had been with Nagle without the latter mentioning to him all these proceedings until Huber asked about them. This shows that they will not talk on these subjects but are intent upon carrying out their plans. People evidently don't like the position of mere contributors - they will have something to say to the business carried on in the Mission. And is the case not merely in Neuchatel. Farewell now and may you have a nice breathing time at Tellicherry etc. The children all well and happy send their kisses with your
 HG
