Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseilles

 Stuttg 24 July 59
My dear wife

Here we are at last again by God's mercy and after all not much the worse for the trip. For I feel much better than at Corcelles, and Herm Sam Fred (and even the other 2) who on acount of the excessive heat had all been more or less affected at one time or other, are now all happy and stirring. On the 16th Herm and Sam had left for Vevey Fred who had accompanied them to Neuch. returned very tired and with headache 17th I had a Sunday at home. Read a Psalm with the boys who listened very well. After prayer Fred said: today I have saved David's life. He spoke it very coolly but then it came out that D was running on the galetat after a cat and fell over a stone near the great opening thro' which hay firewood etc is drawn up from the street. If Fr had not held him D would have fallen upon the street pavement. Of course I prayed then again with them to give thanks. - 18th arrived your letters of the 2d June (Monsoon beginning). I still do hope a little that Taylor may have been somewhere else than on board the Pownah. If not, God's will be done. It must be good. I shall not soon forget the dear brother, and once we shall also learn what this meant. - Plenty Selams to Rama. I am glad he reads the Bible. May God manifest to him His way! - That Salisbury seems after all to have found peace in Christ: truly our Lord's hand is not shortened. I can be content with such experiences tho' in Burmah must greater results appear to be obtained. You will of course know that a number of American Christians cannot write other wise than in grandiloquent style. I hope soon to hear about Strobel. May the Lord preserve him if it be good and useful. His wife must feel very much tried. - That day Jaquet came from Glay on a sort of begging tour. Uranie and Fred gave him also contributions.

Then came Mlle Jean Renaud who takes the greatest interest in the Mission. Your Mary is the child adopted by Corcelles and I ought to have given particulars about her, which I could not afford. But I told her other things and liked her way, very warm simple and unaffected. About 7 1/2 PM Sam. came from Cortaillod where he had left the steamer, whilst Herm. with Marie M. and her friend Henriette followed more than an hour later. Sam. had hoped to move me in order to stay longer, but I did not think it right to change my plans, as I would not risk my health. Better return once when I am well. Visits excite me, I speak more do not feel it at the time, but the bowels are disordered in no time. Well M. came and I passed an hour with them. They had so much to grieve over - new and new splittings on account of Darbyist dissensions: the best people are cut and avoided as heretics. I could not help laughing at all these follies, tho' it grieved me more than I could well express. Why can't these Swiss edify themselves with their own gifts, why always imitate and import English musters. Mr Borel (or who? at Bole) who for 30 years had served the Lord most disinterestedly is now denounced as heretic - no one greets him (I speak of the Darbyist1). I told Marie that I should run away to Eglise libre, nationale or any where rather than continue in such hot water. There may be fish with whom it agrees, but I prefer fresh water. They spoke of Mlle Lavanchy as about to return very vive etc Hunz. a little versatile. Frederick concluded with a very hearty prayer. He sees quite with me in these party fights: his Christianity is very sober and practical. 19th Mary visited once more, then Fred drove me in H. Colin's little gig to Neuch. our little Fred. coming along. Very hearty farewell Fred will soon follow to Canstadt, after he has first deposited Uranie at Baden (near Zürich) for her gouty hands. I have copied her accounts for you, and asked to sell le champ which gives her trouble on account of a bad neighbour. I begged them by all means not to do so much for our petit avoir, but it is easier said than done, they are so full of love and devotion. On the railroad I met with Mrs Josenhans, who said Mlle Lavanchy had arrived at Bale but noone could speak much with her. At Zürich we arrived in the greatest heat and stopped some hours: the newspapers said a Merchant Bundert from Barmen was in the Storch. He had however left going up the lake. In the evening we arrived at Staefa, greeted Lisette with her very nice Natalie (the image they say of my mother) and the 2 curious boys Fritz and Ludwig. Looking out on the street we saw Theodor coming from the neighbourhood. Fine evening, plenty talk. 20th I bathed for the first time in the lake. Herm. Saml etc payed visits with Theod to merchants along or across the lake. Also friends from Stuttg visit (Mlle von Seckendorf, who lives with the famous Mlle Trudel, who heals by prayer. 21st Theodor left. Then we were to go but were detained by a visit of the Swedish Captain Saeman and in consequence I had time to see the dear Grob's (minister) and to seek the Trudel at Maennedorf. She had come for me to Staefa, so we missed each other. Herm. was much pleased with her. Sam. learned to row our boat (working with both hands and the tongue toboot. Marie will explain it). I spoke also with Lisette, and explained free grace to her. She is nearer the right faith, still sometimes bitter against her husbd and troubled about the boys, more than about livelihood. 22d after a rain which had at last cooled the air off to Zürich, across the Swabian Sea to Ulm and Stuttg. where we were most heartily received by aunt and Mama. 23d Sam. and Herm seek their friends I keep quiet and am rapidly regaining strength, drink mineral waters. Adolph surprises us in the evening, he has found faith, but is sometimes very lonely and depressed. In 8 days he will return to Barmen with Theodor. Johanna and her Helene are very nice: our children happy: Fred. sleeps near me and is now more encouraged. Sam. is off to Reinhardts at Maichingen. Plenty love from aunt, Mama and dear sister Emma  Your HG

Excuse me with Convert, I could not visit his people, will try another time when stronger
