 Mang 23 Jan 59
My dear wife

Your letter was very welcome. So Mrs Glasson has left. Fritz had the Wynadfever, no doubt, but after swallowing much Quinine for 3 days he is again up. Still he does not go down to the service today. Heb. has been 3 hours with Miss Chatfd and was much pleased with her, he even invited her to the Communion with us, but she could not resolve to do this at a moment's notice. Moegling arrived yesterday morning, he looks very well. Of our children he said he always liked one better than the other, meaning, those with whom he had been last left him the best impression, except perhaps Frederick. He seems to prefer Herm. somewhat to Sam. Richter has begged pardon and is quite right again But Mrs Schmid is not satisfied and would not see him this time. Mrs Richter is nice and contented. You know she has a boy. Of Miss Culmann Mglg thought, she might well have remained, only Josenhans could not agree with her. But he does not know the particulars. Mrs Meuret he likes better it appears, than him. Boesinger came in this morning from Merc. and joins in the service. Fennell is also here Taylor went to him, and preached to an officer that came to see Fennell, after he had left F time to commence if he should have a mind for it. Very little is here heard of the 2 Regiments. Nothing from the 16th. We wait for news about Gompertz and all. Nancy has remained here as Ayah with a Lady in the Regt but I have not yet seen her. We examined the Catechists on Friday. Only 6 men. Mrs Müller is here with the Hauffs all very nice. Mrs Lehner has died at the end of November. Frey of St Helena has come home after his wife had run away with another man! Bührer had visited them and found little signs of spiritual life there. I hope you keep very quiet during this time to become strong again for greater company after our return. I cannot write to Mary now, perhaps after a few days when the noise and bustle is less. Will you kindly write also about Laufer's return? Fritz however thinks of returning as soon as possible, only he may stop a little at Cann and Tellicherry. I have no plans as yet about returning

 With love yours HGdt

Fritz sends love to you both
