 Coonoor 17th De to 22d. 1859
Dear Papa

Yours of the 9th No came yesterday after we had sent off ours, Many thanks for them all. I was glad to get somethings from Her and Sa. the last Samuel wrote in English was truly good English and the one in French of H much better than before. Hoch came up, not thinner than usual; but hot and excited, for some weeks or monthes he has lived on coffee and sheeruts* or Sigar, so you may imagined; yesterday I was not at the meeting, I am almost afraid to hear him by fear to get nervous by his exitement. I like much the quietness and soberness of Moerike. I like also Strobel he is truly wholy the Lord, he keeps his wife in very good order I would not have given him credit for so much. We repaid our visit to the Miss Philipp and saw Mrs Pierce a nice looking creature a true child of God they say. Metz and Hoch have seen your letter and will bring home as many things as they can as curiosity from India. The 18th heard Hoch at Mrs L.s house, after noon went to Jacatala with Mrs L., Benet, Strobel heard a fine preaching from Mr Clarck, spoke the truth to the Soldiers who give much trouble by their wildness, last week they attacked a woman woonded and two men beside, the malfactor has not been found. the poor woonded are in the hopital. No woman is safe near Jakatala with those 12 hundreds young fellows, almost all unmarried. There is some fear that Orme has sown dissention for the Wesleyans did not come yesterday nor Orm; one think he was with them; but one is not sure as yet.

Two days ago I was rejoiced by Marie telling me that she by God's Grace will follow Herman and aim also at a true conversion we prayed together and I hope it will come to some reality with her conversion.

19th Mrs Woodfall and Mrs. R Dobbie paid us a visit: from the first I heard of that poor Mr Johns about whose conversion one made so much noise two or three years ago here, Asked his wife one day to go to a ball, she refused, he was very much displeased went out came in at midnight drunk beat her so shamfully that she run out, took refuge in a friends house where he went next morning with a pistol and wanted to kill his wife or the lady who had recieved her, they ascaped from him but he tried again to hurt an other officer a sergant was sent after him who seeing the pistol ready to shut him run off after all the poor man was caught and is in prison!

Poor Mrs Dobbie looks very dead though she comes to the meetings. as she is just for some time with the Woodfall. In the evening as usual we took tea in Mrs L.s house and had our meeting, Mr Moerike was not well enough to attend it, Mr Hoch and Stroble with Mrs L. were the chief speakers. Capt Harckness speaks seldome. Mr Benet is expected who will take away the nice family, it will be a loss for Coonoor, every Sunday she keeps the 5 planters for diner after which they go to Jakatala. The 5 planters are two Stanes, Hain, Grove and Malaly whom I had seen with family at Calicut. 
From Mrs. Moegling I hear that he got a very hard writing from the Inspector about Kittles business or rather about the Bride! Mrs Moeg has been for some time pretty well; but again less well she does not like any more the porter which at the time did her much good. Mrs Sauvain is enceinte and suffers bodaly and mentaly much they are to live at Mercara if they do not come to the hills, Herre too it seems are coming to the hills; for he is unable to do his work for the present troubled with fever and headach. Fritz is pulled down. preparing heavily for the departure four of the girls were married last Sunday at Kodacal

The Sopha at Eslingen having got such a good perfum from your flacon shows me that you have not yet been able to give up ce restaurant. How is it with the cigar? Hoch smells it from far. Metz has been told by the two Drs here that he should give it up; but he does not believe it would help against his sickness. or he likes it too much to try what the absance of it would work on him. He spends his last weeks with his friend Orm!

Mr Fritz wrote to Mr Thom St kindly to take our likeness for he would like to have them so Thom has just been here to invite us for thursday 22d the Hoch shall probably be of the party too. It is truly a joy to see that good thom whom the Lord keep unspoted from the world from his youth up. He is to visit weekly once the soldiers with whom he has the sunday school! I have just heard from him that indeed Mr Orme had a meeting with the Weslyans instead of coming together as before. Yesterday at our prayer meeting Mrs Hoch prayed she was nice; I like her better than him.

Now I must conclude it is time for tapal
 Love to all
 Yours J. Gundert


1Dear Papa I wanted to write to the little Ones but the tapal is going 