 Calicut 10th Oct <59>*
My dearest Marie

Yours of the 4th and fith came today for which many thanks. they have have been very long in the for I expected yesterday and felt rather anxious; as I knew that Mr Diez let you pass a night in that fevrish place. The next day you wrote you will have received papas letters, I trust we shall soon get better news about his health!

The school is going on as usual not briliatly. Your Dina every Saturday asks me to open the door of your room to clean it, The cat is still dismayed and crys about fearfully, it went one day in Mr Convert's rom he almost pitied the poor beast! A propos Mr Gordon paid a visit to say fare well as they go to morrow to Vytri! She gave a good report of you pollux and she, he too like it very much. They much surprised at your desertation. 
Please tell dear Miss S. not to be so kind to you for I fear you will be spoiled and what shall I do at your return instead of having a help I shall have a lady to care for! dear Marie do not allow it else you will find it very hard when you come again to put up with you poor old Mama. This letter of Mrs Hauff I have seen, so they will send Miss D. perhaps to us! Till you come she may have your room, if she comes at all. I am glad to hear you like the hills, the meetings I trust the Lord will be pleased to give you a good season for your soul to grow in Him and learn to value Him and His holy will more than any thing else.

The people here as usual all the girls and women send you plenty Salams! I thought dear child when you left this you had 20 Rs left. Never mind tell me only how much you take from dear Sister Moerike. with whom I will settle the account or Sistre Hoch. Love to her specially and to all the dear Friends. Do you also make fire for the pleasure to look at it or to warm yourself? Many sincere thanks to dear Mr and Mrs Stanes they must not spoil you.
 Your own affect
 Mama J. Gundert
