 Stuttg 11 Sept 1859
My dear wife

I am sorry if I did not mention Jette - she lives quite close and I see her of course frequently. In all our conversations I find that I can agree most with her in sentiment - I am glad Mrs Hoch will bring Sarah to Europe - for she will require very early treatmt of that leg. - 4 Sept I preached once more at Diz. on the Gospel of the Phariser's and Publican's prayer, a Miss Wanser formerly at Winnenthal, became very open towards me and seeks I believe for some eternal comfort. Took a gig - in peasant fashion - to Boll and dined with Wezel the minister. In the afternoon saw Blumhardt or rather heard him first in a Missionsstunde which was very much to the purpose. Then drank coffee with him, asked about all his work, and gave him and his wife your love. Bl thinks that he has still the same power, others doubt it, his wife among the rest - and she looks harrassed and bowed down by their immense business - 80 persons to feed lodge content and heal. ....1 Of course there is a great secular element in every day's business, which he tries to shake off as much as he can. Still there it is: and the Gottliebin who has married his agent is not a spirit that attracts or holds fast the servants. I fear she is getting high! As for Bl. C Hoffmann I hear calls him the shorn Simson. 5 Sept to Göppingen where I saw Dean Osiander my old teacher, who wondered exceedingly at Mgl choosing Miss Baur for HK. He related something about her, which satisfied me that the undertakg had been entered upon very rashly - A colporteur and Christian lieutenant from Ulm met me there and talked about bible distribution amongst the Austrian prisoners, which seems to have been very much blessed. At Stuttg Ernst came to meet me. I found them all in old love and union. Ernst full of his study - he lectures on Luther and reads thro' all his volumes. Much good may they do to him. 6 Sept visited Kornthal. My Percy very doux - Pfleid seems to have broken him in - he expects his mother in Europe within a short time and the father will try soon to follow her. PM was very attached and accompanied me back to Zuffenhausen. I walked both thither and back (with 2 Emmas) so you see that the bath has not been in vain. Frei's sister in law related to me how he has been forsaken by his wife in St Helena where she lives with another man. The Comm will help him to send his 3 children to the Cape for education. But I fear Frei comes to no resolution. He seems to have been so melancholy and empty that his wife took to drinking in order to have some comfort and ended by running away. 7th a day of visitors, Miss[ionar]y Reutter and wife came to the Miss[ionar]y working union which is every Wednesday in aunt Emma's room. Then Oehler and Betulius, old University friends. Lastly Finkh's father quite distressed by his son's letters and his attachmt to Miss Daeuble "Insp. begged him to be merciful, but a father cannot easily shake off his duty to his children etc" I pitied the old man who took the matter much to heart. In the evening I supped with great people at the Museum, Klumpp Binder and other Educational Officers being assembled with Oehler. 8th dined at Dettinger's where Paul Steudel relates of his brother's (the Deacon's) illness. He fancies to be rejected by God, no use for him in praying, believing or trying any means, God won't help him, as for him (Joh. Steudel) he has done the needful. The whole family deeply tried May God have mercy on them. 10th Aunt goes to Buch for Mrs Süskind's birthday, I to Waiblingen (where I saw the Bührer's and excused myself for not coming to the feast of today, where Leupoldt of Benares is to figure) and Winnenden. Z. is glad to see me stronger orders a treatment for 3-4 weeks after which he thinks I shall be cured and may lie up for the winter at Bale, so as to return before next Monsoon. I am not to exert myself in Churches, but had on the spot to hold a meeting in his great hall (for the insane and people from the town) A teacher Glöckler from Trossingen (who knows the Irions) was an agreeable compagnon to W. another teacher accompanied me from W. who laid his scruples and cares before me in a way that made my experience somewhat useful to him. So I returned this morning I feel very cheerful and able to march, shall yet undertake several little tours. Farewell
 Yours HG
