 On board the Panther near Malta 14 May 59
My dear wife

On the 10th evening we anchored before Suez, landed next morning and proceeded to the railway Terminus. I walked it better than Glasson who complained of the heat sand and distance. We waited a long time, at last when we had provided ourselves with oranges etc the train started. About 3 PM we reached Cairo and got a dinner there gratis. But no time to see the Lieder's. Returned to the railway and reached Rosette about 9 PM where tea was provided - as there was milk I drank 2 cups, the first since the 26 April. Then after many delays to Alex about 2 AM of the 12th. It was a tiresome transit, but better than the vans. Percy slept on the ground (of the carriage as our fellows had done) and Glasson stretchg himself over Percy's place got also room for sleeping. We others nodded and leaned and crouched as well as we could. I felt for the first time that it was cold - In the morning I had enjoyed the last sea bath off Suez. After breakfast in the hotel we set off for the Panther (12th 9 AM) bidding farewell to Glasson who went on board the Orissa with the majority of our Passengers. We had of course heard the news of war already at Suez, and I read some of the details at Alex. Triest packets did nomore run, so it was well I had decided upon the Marseilles route. Steiner, a German or Belgian, whose acquaintance I had made remained in Egypt in the vain hope of finding still an Austrian vessel for Triest. Other passengers changed their route rushed to the French Consul for Passports or preferred the safer course by Southhampton. About 25 passengers accompany me to Marseilles. The Engl Officers begin to shake their heads and fear they will not be able to keep long out of the quarrel. But God rules and knows what He is about. Also we are in his accounts - the war also must serve for our good though at first it might look as if it separated me yet more from India, and you from the Continent. Let us therefore take courage and believe that if nothing can separate us from His love, we cannot be injured by any thing that may happen. 
The nicest of the old passengers that has come along for Mars. is a merchant Graham of Bombay, a friend of Nesbitt etc Then there is a Lieut. Grote who likes to be spoken to, feels himself a sinner and hopes one day to become religious. An old Dr O'Flaherty is interested in the progress of education and Missions - his wife pets a monkey, whom Percy yesterday made tipsy by giving him half a bottle of beer I had to punish him for it. PM is always getting into some mischief or other, but people are kind and bear with him. It was however time to put him to school. An Italian accompanies us to Malta from whence he will proceed to Genoa in order to join in the fight. His name is Tedesco (= German) he looks also very fair and lighthaired. A curious person is an attorney Walker from Bombay, who believes Strauss and other infidels and rejects the Gospel altogether. Mrs Inverarity, the friend of Kies, is also on board, but does not come nearer since the day she first introduced herself to me. Mrs Holloway I saw last at Rosette she stood the fatigue very well her irritable little boy I heard often in the night, the last time at the Alex terminus There was no time to bid farewell to the Harrisons etc. With Glasson I shook hands when we jumped into separate boats in Alex harbour. I hope to close this tomorrow at Valetta. Goodnight.

15. The steamer for Madras has passed us and there is no possibility of writing till we reach Marseilles. I preached today to a very small audience, the officers etc remaining on deck as we were nearing Malta. I felt very lonely and spoke with little freedom. But this evening I was put to shame. As I talked with an old looking Major Willoughby (who however ist only as old as myself) he waxed warm and at last out came the confession of his being a man of meetings - a brother indeed. I reproved him a little, but he is so shy, cannot commence, stammers when being asked, was plucked in several examinations - so it is quite a mercy that he could speak at last. I really think he is more than Harrison - nothing bright about him, but the mind settled on the one thing needful. He related how he married, wanted a wife that could help him, got one who always pushes and pulls him and is thankful for it. I told him I was also treated unmercifully in that way (!). He goes now to Leamington, Warwickshire, near Rugby, to enjoy the ministry of an Independent Pope, whom he prefers to all he heard before. Octavius Winslow is in the same place (or was at least) but he is much more flowery and eloquent, than the humble dissenter, who furnishes all the shopkeepers servants etc with their regular allowance. So you see how one finds a friend unawares. - I did not land at Malta, where we stayed only 3 hours for coaling. 15th early saw the Sicilian coast, Marsala etc 17th passed thro' the strait of Bonifacio, very agreeable sight on both hands. Now we steam along Corsica and tomorrow hope to land. No quarantine is the good news we heard at Malta - so I may be with the boys on the 21st. Thanks to the Lord who has helped me over my way wonderfully. I feel quite strong now and wonder why I left you at all. But I trust it is all ordered for the best and we will take courage for what may come

Love to all from your
 HG.
