 Kaity 15th Nov 1859
Dear Papa

In your two last received on the 10th inst. you say nothing of your health! I trust the Lord is gradually restoring your health, better slowly than too quickly in every way. Our Lord will do it to His praise and glory. You kindly ask me about spectacles, in deed I shall be much obliged for getting me two pairs; but I cannot tell what nomber; Mr Irion has the very same as mine; but he does not know what a number. One pair should be of the weakest for people who begin to use them, the second pair for after ward, Mine which I value as gold were as by good fortune put among my things in coming from home, I have tried several pairs here; but none does so well as these which unhapily is not ferme one of the glases slips out often! I would also like you to bring me a shawl, Mrs. Muller will buy it as she did for Mrs Irion she will ask you 5 or 6 goolden for it. While I am begging I will still mention a fine light Mantile for Marie a pretty one, nice shape and nice trimming with velvet. But allow me dear papa to intreat you not to return too soon not before next September (except of course you feel a calling to return sooner. About Cambel having not heard from his father was a mistake two letters awaited him at Vitry while he came from the Hills, people say that he does a good deal for him. He is expected here with his mother and wife where they intend to live it appears. Fritz is rather desapointed that the Comite lets him free to go or stay though it is exactly what he had asked them; Irion and Moerike have strongly advised him to go home; we do not know as yet what he will do. Convert has been kept in his room for 5 days having a cold which broke out in his lips so bad that he could not eat now it is over: he will go to Vinad where Thomas expects him and has sent pions to wait on him on the road which is very bad they say. A new planter a believer has of late settled there, Mr Frere wrote from Bangalore on his way to Madras a very nice and affectionate letter to Irion. If they get Holloway as supposed at Tellicherry they shall have but little help for the mission. At Calicut 15 of the prisonors had asked that the Missionaries would preach to them and leave has been granted; but Mr Sharp keeps it for himself and nothing is done for the prisonors, Have I told you that 100 have died of the Cholera, Hill himself took it too but recovered Lucyains had an attack too. he appears glad to have to go home with Missionaries; but Hoch is displeased very much and spoke as if he would not see him, and have a service of his own, at which Fri objected It seems that he is not much liked at Coonoor they prefere Stroble to Hoch! 
Poor Mr Moerike is poorly he suffers much from boils or abces in a bad place, the Dr has lanced it; much matters came out, but it remains still very large and costik is to be put in side of the woond which pains him fearfully; She is poorly too with the old complaint, the Dr says it is a hardening of the woomb, she is so weak that she walk with pain in the house her legs as without life. the Dr told them she should go home; but she will not go without him.

To day 13th I have seen Abraham with his two daughters Martha and Elisabeth, they came for the preaching, he is a fine looking man, poor Joseph looks very different from what he did when he passed at Calicut. The leprosy is making rapid progres on his body, he is quite swolen all over and suffers a good deal, Moerike preached about the noble man who came to Jesus for his son. I liked his preaching very well. I understood almost every word,

Convert has written home for a wife; Moerike and Irion seem to think that if Fritz goes home you will come to his stead, which I do not think, as their is no work here with English people you would be more useful where there is some, however God's will shall be done

Excuse me with dear Samuel for not writing him this time. Herman s letter may also be welcome to him, I thank him for his kind note to me and Marie. I am glad to see, he is not pleased with himself feeling, knowing, how much he has still to grow in the Lord, if we are but humble the Lord will make us perfect in Him and fulfil all His promises in us. I send him a kiss or a warm hand as he does not like kisses I hear, in this we are pretty much alike!

Col Clemance and Miss have just come to spend the day with Metz, Mr Orm* too, we are all invited to dine down with them.

Now I have seen Miss Clemance, very much the same full of good works or pretending to do, they will go to Europe next year; for here she can not expound the bible to the natives; but there she will etc. Mrs Beaman with whom she is in correspondance in every letter sends us love, the Gunderts are the people she loves and she begs we would pray for her and her husband who is still the same. I tried her spectacles which fit my eyes, they are in England No 35 if German No are the same you should bring 35 and 30 if possible the handles of bones or ivery; for iron tares the hairs much. The Dr has ordered Moerike to Coonoor they are going to morrow. for how long one does not know, that part were is the boil is to be cut off there is some fear about him; he may after all be sent to Europe. he is quiet in the middle of many fears and anxieties. Mrs Moeg has but the skin and bones remaining Mr Fink is to go there next month and be married to Mr D... is with them. As long as the Irions are here we stay at the end of this month they go down, we shall then go also to Coonoor if the Moerike do not return at that time
