 Calicut 19th Aug <59>*
My sweet Frederic

You are still the upermost in my mind and I felt much for you the past days and hope the Lord has heard our prayers for you very dear child. Lately I read again of children even younger than you who come by hundreds to ask what shall I do to be saved, many weeping, saying I am a naughty child, disobedient I have sinned; will the Saviour receive me, pardon me? Many others come ful of joy saying Oh how good is the Lord Jesus to have died for us, to have pardon us: those dear happy children come often together to pray and thank the Lord! Is not this nice? Do you ever pray alone and with your brothers?

Since I told our girls here of that beautiful work of God in England; they also come every day together to ask God to send His Holy Sprit, for without the Holy Ghost we cannot love the Saviour nor believe in Him and you know God has promised to give it to those who ask for it. Do dear sons begin also to pray every day together and alone for the Holy Ghost and you shall surely get it. with this gift of God you shall find easy to overcome your wicked heart and evil nature and with it learning Christ after Him you shall by His grace learn obedience daily in the many difficulties and tryals which you may meet.

My sweet precious sons you five together. I send you much love and kisses  Your Mother
 J. Gundert



1Lieber Eddy

auch von mir herzl. Grüße. Grüße den lieben Paul recht herzl. von mir Freue Dich recht mit dem lieben Papa!
Adieu, mit innigem Gruß und Kuß
 Deine treue Schwester
 Marie
