<Miss Gundert, Kind Care of W. Stanes Esqre, Coonoor.>* Stamped 
 Calicut 12th Oct <59>*
My dearest Marie

Many thanks for your of the 5 and 6th which came together on the 11th I am glad and thankful to hear you are well and feel happy in the Lord! What do you mean about Herman? I have not heard his letters. What does he say? 
I have just a letter from Mr Hoch in which he speaks of the blessings there are now in the north where the mutinies made an end to the lives of so many there by 100 300 400 they ask for baptisem. May it please God to give us some dropes of thoe refreshing rains! You are very kind dear child to write me so often, you do not expect so from me I know and I will not surpass your expectations. The Lord is good to me I feel again better than I did for some time. My love to dear Louise and to Mr and Mrs Stanes I beg them not to indulg you too much though I feel indeed very thankful for the for the kindness shown to you.

Accept thanks for all the news you give me and give my love to dear Mr M. J. Ho., D.s and the good friends there but specially to Mrs Lavson whom I would like to meet in this world, will she not come here on her way to Bom? The Parsee girl came one day, Marian came to finish her collor; she with all the girls send much Salams, your class of english have got 6 new testaments from which they give me one verse daily they were much pleased at such a present, I hope they will not forget what they have learn with you at least in reading, for writing my fingers have not been made for it! Rama has heard that the Horsekeeper Canara does not like to stay longer on the hills, if so get an other one there and let him go.

In the anvelop containing the inclosed was written "With love from M. Will. I will write as soon as I can" To day I get the addition of a tear woman with three little girls the baby 2 month old the next 2 yrs the 3d 4 yrs their names I do not know, they are coming by and by from Coilandy. Adieu beloved dear Child

On the 16th I will sent to papa
 your Mama J.G.

Mrs G has not yet got the account from her* Sister they will come to us for some days before they leave for Cochin or Mang one never knows what they are about
