 Calicut 15th July 1859
My precious Frederic

This time I write you a few lines. I am sitting quietly in my room taking care of Julie and Sarah Fritz, who are not quite well. Marie sits at school. You wrote us a long letter; but almost all verses. I do not belong to a poetical tribe and like your prose better; but never mind. 
Now my sweet Frederic I hope you are happy with your beloved papa and that you tell him every thought of yours, good and bad, be not afraid. papa will pray for you and with you and our dear Lord Jesus will give you a new heart it is that which you want to become happy and a good child. With out faith and trust in the dear Saviour you can not get any thing; You must not be discurraged if you do not get at once what you ask from the Lord; but continue to trust to believe and ask till you get your petition 
You have many joys and pleasures these days, you are perhaps still in Corcelles while papa goes to Vevey Is not the Lord very good to you? Can you believe that He loves you much? He would like you to be happy and joyful telling Him all your little sorrows and concerns.

We have here plenty rains night and day it pours by torrents. You have a fine sun and hot, it is a pity there are no fruits now else tante Uranie would have given you from her garden such a quantity! How did you like your visit?

Give my love to your brothers Paul and David I shall D.V. write them next month. I send them as well as to you a tender kiss.
 Your Mama J. Gundert


1Gelt Du schreibst auch bald an Deine liebe Mutter und sagst ihr etwas daß sie Freude hat und Gutes hofft für ihren Friedrich. Sie ist sehr besorgt um Dich daß Du auch ein wackerer Jüngling und tüchtiger Mann werdest und zu guter Letz in allem Ernst ein Himmelsbürger. Kannst ihr darauf Hoffnung machen.
 Dein V.

