 Dizenbach 27 Aug 59
My dear Marie

I have this time nothing to write, in one sense - as I am in the uttermost corner of the world where no news are heard and hardly any faces seen except those of peasantchildren, browner than their hairs. I feel that I am a little exiled - and make up my mind for a week more of this sort of life, but then I shall have enough and feel free to run away and try other corners. But you have a birthday before you and I will just tell you that I hope you will find every year running away more quickly - I can not say more satisfactorily I mean more quickly because you learn to do work instead of indulging youthful fancies: and that makes the day to slide away repidly. And perhaps more satisfactorily because you know more of the Lord's goodness and greatness and of the wonders of His love destined for us: but only perhaps, because we make also daily better acquaintance with our own hearts and find daily less in them that we could approve or excuse. Any how you will stand on the word - f.i. that mountains and hills shall fall, but He will not withdraw His mercy from thee, and other palpable promises. On these dear child you must take a firm stand and often repeat them to your heart, when your thoughts wander because there is in them the power of eternal life. Such words are unspeakably more precious than all commentaries on them. You will lose more and more the striking experiences of inward emotions, but your steps in practical life will be more perfectly interwoven with the sayings of God's mouth, and that will give them a character partaking much more of the eternal life of the word than of the momentary value that attaches to the experiences of a being of yesterday. I hope you feel it how necessary for us is the enjoyment of some abiding unshaken consolation to which we can cling when all goes round with us and nothing looks firm and permanent. I hope you have already tasted much of the word's sweetness and learn to like it better than honey. The Lord knows what's good for us and He has recommended it so heartily. Your brothers write very heartily about their new studies, they are famulus by turns and must sweep and cleanse and soon make fire etc When they visit the Kinderhaus, where a little girl has made her appearance, Fred sits, Paul looks in the firewoodshop after his guinea pig, and David tries to catch a little fish which he has put into the well. Fr has perhaps most desire after me, so I have after Him for he wants it most. Isn't the Lord thus with the poor of the flock? With a kiss
 your Pa
