3 Beyond Goa 16 Apr 59

My dear wife

I wrote from Mang and Coompta where we disembarked some passengers and happily got no new ones except deck passengers for whom we need not care. Where Stanger's are I donot know they seem to have left. In the night of 14th to Goa - guns in vain - we anchored, run in the morning of 15th and found that only this morning the trip would be resumed. Therefore resolved with some others and Capt to see old Goa. After breakfast went up in a boat well covered - walked over some of the Churches. The old Francisco d'Assisi Church very splendid, but forsaken - everywhere pictures of martyrdoms suffered by priests etc at the hands of Malabar Muselmans etc - rather interesting for some of the dresses, boats etc shown, the painting below mediocrity. Then Cathedral Franc. Xaver's tomb etc - Hot walking indeed, returned with Dr Harrison to the boat, from whence he sketched the place. When the others returned from a Convent with several purchases we rowed back. After dinner left again to see old Colonel Guzman, visited in Mgl's company Dec 1845. He is now grey somewhat stately and distant: could not speak as I wished, chiefly on account of Walton's accompanying Glasson - for Gl. who was about to dun him got hooked in and gave him 20 œ to go down to Cal and take a place on Parry's estate. The fellow looks wretched and I did not like Gl's patronizing tender way with him, but of course I had nothing to say as Gl. never asked me for my opinion. This morning - after a wretched night so much did young Holloway cry - Glasson did a characteristic thing sent Viran for milk, as we have done at Mang and Coompta - for the children only, I never saw any - V. runs 3 miles for it, meanwhile the Signores Signoras and Signoritas come in the most fashionable dresses and fill all our rooms. Which means 2, the ladies and the gentlemen's cabins, the latter and all our basins being soon in requisition for the Portug passengers vomiting, whilst lying about on our carpet bags beds and clothes. Well the steamer is ready but no Biran. Glasson had told him to get milk any how, the steamer moved about 7 AM and no Biran to be seen. Capt fidgetty and angry for we have not a bit of coals to spare, and provisions etc are miserable except drinkeables of which I alone with Dr Harrison buy none. We fired a gun for him. At last he was seen following us in a boat and taken up. No end now of passengers, we cannot hope to reach Bomb. before Monday morning. The Capt. still expects new passengers at Vingorla, where I will post this! Only so much that I also walked about Goa and was not too much tired. Health wonderful! With true love to you all and thanks for your prayers - for here we have no quiet moment all like Lucknow barracklife without the danger of it - and hoping you continue praying for the poor wayfaring man  Your HGdt
Kiss to Marie
