 Basle 31 D1 [1859]
My dear Marie

Many thanks for yours of the 15 Nov. Die Photogr*1 N. 1. kam natürlich durch die Bräute No 2 durch Reuthers via Madras. Capt Roberts kenne ich nicht persönlich, nur per renomm‚e. Henry Groves scheinst Du mit Fk Gr zu verwechseln, wenigstens hörte ich nie von der Frau des erstern was auf die letztere paßt. D sagst Du betrug sich schändlich gegen T. St. Ist der Ausdruck nicht zu scharf Besinne Dich doch. Hast Du auch die Gegenpartei gehört? - Stanes Harkn Dobbie Mrs Laws und Bennett etc bitte ich alle wenn es noch langt herzlich von mir zu grüßen. But I forget myself - seeing Mama is with you I ought to write Engl. I was glad to hear you were with Mama - Shall I tell you that I felt the effects of dissipation in your letters. It is so easy to relapse into the world, its griefs and pains, its plays and pleasures. Now you write in a very settled spirit - you thank the Lord that He has ordered all things well. But I can hardly shake off the idea that you are still more agitated about past things than you confess to me. Sister Louise is of course much more easy to talk to than I am at this distance but I cannot help feeling now somewhat in the dark as the question approaches, what is to be your party if Mama finds it best to return to me. I have resigned all influence in answering this question and can but ask the Lord to guide Mama and you aright. But I am naturally anxious about you, because your mind has not been so staid and calm of late that I could easily believe you would without much ado find out the best way. On the contrary I can fancy that the call to return to Germany may be a blow to your fondest hopes, or also that God may mean to retain you in India and your mind is so agitated that you cannot hear his voice and return to Würtbg, merely to find yourself unhappy there. Im Sturm die Sonne spiegelt nicht im Meer ihr heilig Angesicht. In an agitated state of mind you cannot be* sure of the voice of him that speaks to you. You remember you sent this from <Kornthal 3. Mai 1855>2 to Herm who showed me of late the letters of his <Maria.>2 How often did God even then knock at your heart, how often has he done it since. But you have yet <Grundlage des>1 to acquire the docile attitude of <Kornthaler Streits>1 the perfectly contented child. Now it is this alone I am anxious about. I do not want you here - I am not desirous to see you (splendidly - or sufficiently) settled in India -: I should rejoice to have you again as my "Madle" for any length of time, I could also thank the Lord if you were called by him to stop in India: but - I wish above all that by no stupidity or sinfulness of ours God's good and perfect will be prevented from being carried out. Therefore dear girl I beg you to be very quiet before Him who is our peace, that you be perfectly sure of His will and carry it out in faith. May He help you the more as you may be surprized by the suddenness of all this change and find it difficult to beat once so open with Mama as may now be needed. But of this I am sure that tho' the Lord may come as a thief more than once, he steals no good thing from us. He may take many things away, but love joy hope and other treasures of real value he can only give and increase. May we experience it so among ourselves and find every day a new promise realized in our behalf. - Dear Heb. knows on the whole what my anxieties for you are. He says also that he could not wish you to remain in India, except married: otherwise to return with Mama. The little boys and girls were charmed with him, when I took him out yesterday. He knew of course most of the children: many of them could not well remember his face. David said after the first greeting on Wednesday "so lieb ist der" - You may fancy that he makes noise here, both in the house and in the town, feels very well and girds himself for any amount of work. Now happy new year from your
 Papa
