 Dizenbach 3 Sept 59

<Just now I get yours of the 23d. Selam to all>

My dear wife

Last Sunday 28th Aug. I received again one of your letters (16 July) best thanks for it. You pray for me; this I feel often and praise the Lord for having given us one mind between ourselves and also an open door towards our children. In our many separations and often long protracted absences this consolation makes itself felt as the foremost of all. I have also realized it as such in my loneliness here. Pf Meuret wrote me a few lines, which show him again somewhat displeased with dear Fred. but the letter has impressed me very little except with the prayerful thought that the good man wants a little more faith and love, wares with which we also are far from overladen. I wrote him what a nice time I had with Fred. and tried to give him more courage. Your idea to let M go with the Bandy to Coimbatore appeared to me rather strange. It will hardly do for a Miss to make such a journey without good reasons. Not that I have any thing to say against it if it be already settled: only I fancy the matter would look much better if you went along as Duenna. Though you feel well the change might be of great use to you too. - That 28th I preached about Jesus weeping over Jerusalem: I had to change the time because one of the ladies wanted to hear first the Rom. Cath. sermon and made the others doubtful whether I would preach at all. Miss Clausnitzer helped me then to settle the matter. She is a true and conscientious Christian, but feels here miserable because the tone is of course prevailingly worldly. A servantgirl of the house who is Protestant was permitted to attend likewise: not so the cook who wished also to come. 29th Mrs Bührer's brother William paid me a visit on his way to Boll and announced an other on Wednesday from his father, which after all has come to nothing. In the afternoon Wezel came from Boll with some other ministers when I had to speak a good deal about Mission etc. They tried to engage me for meetings with schoolmasters etc but I declined all, so that I have till now kept aloof from all Miss[ionar]y feasts etc. 30th I accompanied the guests esp Ladies into an inn where they use to eat curdled milk: for the first time I ventured to partake of it and felt it did me rather good. 31st Not to let August escape without a great action I set out alone and walked to the top of the Hiltenburg an old ruin SW of this. The roundaboutway upwards took me nearly 3/4 hours - how I perspired and how the pulse did beat - and then clouds rising up on all sides so that I could not long look about me but had to choose whether I should await the rain in a fine moss hut within the ruins, or go down the steep footpath without loss of time. Fear of catching a cold by standing or sitting drove me down and in 10 minutes I had reached the first house of the village. Thoroughly shaken I reached the bath and changed clothes whilst I had a cup of chocolade prepared for my refreshment. Next morning I felt quite like a new man and could for the first time thank heartily for the change experienced in the body. I feel as you write that I ought not to come out too soon for I cannot deny it the disease appeared at times quite inseparable from the body, so that I doubted whether I was not to remain for the end of my career a sickly weakly man - but now I believe or rather feel that I may yet be made quite whole (humanly speaking). It is in the Lord's hands and will be directed as it is right. Miss Clausnitzer and Mrs Eggel left this morning, only 3 people remain besides me, who intend tomorrow to go to Boll then visit Dr Zeller and see the remaining friends in Würtemberg. 
 Farewell meanwhile
 Your HGdt
