 Calicut 16th July <59>*
Dear Papa.

Yours of the 31 May just recieved is well come accept thanks for it. I always felt there was some thing unhealthy in Hs piety. I thank God He brought you there I believe He will use you for some good rivival and pulling down in our dear children. I am much with you in the Spirit these days you are in Corcelles, may you also there have a word in season for many! Our dear little Frederic is much in my mind; may our Lord loose him from the bonds and chains he is tied of which I am the cause. Oh may God give you grace and make light to shine in his darkness. Oh may God give us faith and to that dear son too in Him whose power is not shortened who regardeth still what He has said in Matt 17. Lord Jesus help our unbelief and loose, make free our son for thy promise sake Amen

Mr Holloway is going home much excited and sick, Thomas has also applied for leave to go home, he comes every thusday evening for a little meeting we have among us: he was much interested in your letters and sends you love, also Garthwaite who will write to you he said, his wife is a nice naturel woman simple, not converted as yet I think. Our Bull I have sent to Mr. Ward at Coimbatoor who perhaps in exchange of it will send me a female Aden calf. Gompertz has been ill with fever, his people had the Cholera once more. Sneeha died of it Col Stuart going on well in his soul very ill still. This monsoon is not a regular one; poor people much to be pitied, the rice already 4 Rs the moanda; we have alredy 60 girls three more have asked to be received, if it goes on in that way I do not know where the people shall be put nor what they may get. A fine nayar boy has come from Travandram he is under Convert, promises to become a fine youth for the mission, He has been led it seems by God here instead of going in a* holy place where he intended to go; but robbed of his money on the way he remembered to have heard that in Calicut there are fine teachers. the whole way he lived from the temples's property.

Strobel still very weak, they go to Coonoor. Fritz not better at Coonoor too for the Dr's advise.

If the Vandy should go to fetch back Fritz as far as Coimbatoor I may perhaps let Marie go along in it with Rama who would care for her and from there she might ride up your horse which is now with Fritz in that way she might see her beloved friend Louise Scuddar and our other friends meanwhile 6 weeks or two months passed there would be nice and good for her health, as for me I feel so well that I need not a change so as long as possible I would rather stay here. if the Comity sends you at Mangalore as Hoch says that you are wanted there I shall have then change and rest enough. if God spares us so long and brings you back in good health. at all event I trust you will take full time at home; for though you feel well there it will require a long time before you can ascertain how far the health is restored. We are thank God well, Marie helps me joyfully in all she can, I trust the Lord continues his work in her.

I thank Mrs. Christ for her kind remembrance of me, I hope meeting of young ladies in her house is going on well. Love to dear Rosine Waser and the Ecklins Sister Hoch is much better they say The two Thomas came yesterday Edward prayed though nice in one way, one feels there is no new birth; pious education perhaps also some thrist after the Lord Convert very nice doing much with the people by perseverance and love I think, L just the same plays piano too much cuts trees in the compound as if the Master. I told him it was not right to spend money for making the roads so fine as he does in the compound.

Love to all
 Yours J. Gund
