 Basel den 19ten Juni. [1859]
Liebe Mutter und Marie.

Ich habe Euch schon lange nicht mehr geschrieben nun will ich Euch einmal wieder einen Brief schreiben. Unßer Vater ist ungefähr 2 Wochen und 4 Tage weggereißt von hier und kommt am Samstag wieder zum Missionsfest. Ich bin gesund! Seid ihr gesund? Wir waren sehr vergnügt wo unßer Vater hier war. Ich freue mich sehr auf die Sommerferien. Wir waren eingeladen zu einer Frau. Dort haben wir gebadet und Kuchen und Kaffee bekommen und sind dann in den Hof gegangen und haben gespielt und haben dann noch Kirschen und andre Leckereien bekommen. Ich grüße und küsse Euch
 Euer
 Euch liebender Sohn David Gundert.



 <29 June 59>*

1My dear wife.

On the 25th I left Stuttg - the 5 boys met me at the railway terminus. D. was delighted. When we approached the Kinderhaus he forbade me to look up - at least I must not look at the 2d story. When I entered I found 9 flowerpots in my window, a fine bouquet besides and a garland around the lookg glass. He then wished Oh that men were immortal, then we should always have our parents. Again: now there are 4 happy people in the room. He knew all about Chiracal when I drew it before them: more yet of Mangalore. Of the Catech boys he remembered chiefly Hermann and regretted to hear of his death. All have had good testimonials this month. D is the 3d in his class. Frederick and Paul are in another class, the first 5th the other 14th: but you know that F. has been kept back for a year, having only to repeat the lessons which are new to Paul. Evidently they try to give me joy by their behaviour in school and institution. They wait anxiously for leave to go with me in the vacation. No children are this time permitted to travel but those whose parents are present. There is sometimes much trouble to get them back in time.
