Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay
<Kaity, Ootacamund>1

 Stuttg 13 Oct 1859
Liebe Marie

This first letter of yours addressed to Stuttg reached me on my return from Bale. In future you will always address to Bale, for there I hope to pass the winter. No doubt I should be better treated here than in a large institution, but I think my way is plain that I ought to stay with the children, the more so as Dr Streckeisen will treat me. - Col Young has written me twice I write to him once more today and hope the Lord will put him into the right place. I shall be glad if Pfleiderer's pay you a visit. From her you will hear many news. No doubt she will be a real help to her husband and the Mission. - No prospect now it seems of your seeing the Scudder's. Thus it seems often to be in India - make a plan and prepare to execute it, when lo every thing changes! But I hope something else may turn up to give you a chance of breathing better air. Herm and Sam. were very tired, the weeks I was at Bale. They had to labour in the new Mission garden besides all the other work for their lessons. No wonder if their letters are short or rare. Frederick finds that his Papa Meuret is kind to him, and the others are easily contented. David asked* once* Fred's pardon for having said something to wound his feelings, I asked what it was and heard at last that D. had reproached him with loving Johannes Müller so much more than them "Love us at least as much as him; Du behandelst uns ja wie der Landmann seine Ochsen". D. owned this was too hard, but they must naturally feel that Fr. prefers boys that look up to him and lean on him to his more independent brothers. Formerly David was the only one to visit with Jacob Ammann the weekly Miss[ionar]y meeting of Saturday evening: as the others saw how I commended him for it, they accompanied him the last time to the meeting. When I read Scripture with them, D is the first to answer questions, but also the others give now and then good answers. Paul began once I know Papa what you would like most. I asked what, he said that we all be converted and meet you in heaven. He complained then of himself, that he often wished to fulfil our joy, but some how or other it came to nothing. It was quite inexplicable to him, why such good emotions should evaporate so quickly.

The last week they spent with me they were very open Fred. chiefly occupied with Stramin work, booksigns for Nanele Braeuning etc, David with mapdrawing - they are all fond of Geography - then they read stories or made me to relate to them. I see that indeed God works in them we must only go on praying and hoping for them, and we shall yet see the results. When you write to Emma do it in English, she likes it. Now farewell. The Lord keep you in His love and peace and bring you soon a restored
 Papa
