 Coonoor 20th Dec. <59>*
My precious Frederic

I was greatly rejoiced to see by papa's letter that you had a new zeale <Eifer>1 for learning: and specially to hear that your self with Paul were grieved to have joined some naughty boys in a rebellious spirit against Mr Meuret. I hope you did beg pardon <Vergebung>1 and have never had since such a wicked mind; God has given you Mr and Mrs Meuret for parents, and you know what the Bible says to Children regarding their parents, not in the way my David used <pflegte>1 to read it, that is to say upset down <umgekehrt>1.

Now my dear child we are very near Christmas <Christtag>1 and I trust you will have much joy. and that none of you will be jealous <eifersüchtig>1 at an other's little presents <Geschenke>1. I wish you the best of joy that is the one about the Lords birth in your heart, such joy as the Shepherds had when they heard of a Saviour having come into the world! Oh my precious son there is not in the world such a joy as that one, and if you like you can get it even today. The dear Saviour is always ready, willing, yea desirous to impart <gewähren>1 it specially to children. Yesterday I heard a Lady saying that a ship where there are many children is the safest <sicherste>1 ship, when I asked why, she answered. God loves regards children so much that He spares the Ship for their sake. Do you believe my sweet child that the Lord loves you?

Now Adieu my beloved child with a tender <zärtlich>1 kiss
 Your Mama Julie Gundert
