<Revd Dr H. Gundert, Missionshaus, Basel, Vi… Bombay and France>1 
 Calicut 20th Octber <59>*
Dear Papa

This week our house is full of visitors The Garthwaites who have been detained 7 days. Mr Burckhardt. Huber of Hoobli and Diez, returning from the hills but he is in a harry to finish or rather to make up his account which should have been sent to M. in the middle of Oct and now we are the 18th Huber is a fine looking man very tall a beautiful countenance; he is not better; his sickness is supposed to be "un retrecissement des intestins" In a month he usually goes out 7 times and even then the stools are but little balls extreemely hard, he has not much pain; but uneasiness and usually very little sleep often none. This ilness has began on board ship in coming out, at home he never had a day of sickness and here never a day well! I never heard such a reasoner as Garthwaite it will be difficult for him to believe in small things he does not make much conscience of truth! he has nothing respectable. The other day in the bazar where they go very often he saw a tin box and said it was biscats, the owner a Mappla said it was a whole lump of cake or biskets not separeted from each others They bet about it for two Rs it turned out at the opening of the box as G had said he at once took the box under his arm and walkd away, the poor howner run after him to get something; but he refused giving a cash though the value of the box was 2 Rs worth. I told her it was wrong, she said oh no they made wagerd about it! All the natives speak ill of him. She would do better I think had she an other man. Since he left Cadalore he has been sued for 60 Rs for having beaten there the owner of the school house he denies to have done it however He must pay. Here the Dobbie has brought him before the cort for 29 Rs she declares to have paid the washerman; but they will be condemned to pay: She wishes to go and give witness in the cort, while in secret the Ayah told me that they had continual fight with the Dobbie and she knows that they have paid in 3 times 11. 1/2 Rs nothing else. I have often fights with them for I can not hear the poor natives being abused so shamfully. To her hearts content she has now been sitting two days in the Catchery to witness against the Dobbie. I am glad they are going tomorrow to Mangalore by the Steamer which brings this letter to Bom So you shall also get two at once as I had just now the joy to get 19th Oct yours of the third and 11th Sept came for which many thanks God be praised for his goodness to you, I felt you were getting better and it was a comfort to me after your two preceeding letters. However I think you would do perhaps well to evoid the monsoon and come round the Cape so as to be here just at the end of it

Regarding Marie's going to the hills I felt some what uneasy and asked advice to the people on the hills who all advised me to send if I could not go myself, wich would have been nearly impossible. Fritz bring not here his two little ones in my charge beside the house and school. When the Diezes came it appeared to me right to send her, for she needed a change, All the sisters write to me how thin and pale Marie is. I fear that old story is the cause and a change may help her to shake it off by Gods grace. 
Perhaps the poor dear Fredric would go on better under someone else than Mr Moeret. Could it not be done pay some one to keep him? his learning might go on better too if his nerves are not so much iritated and health affected by the dislike he has for Mr M. Paul and David can bear every thing well enough; but the poor weak fellow Seek a good house and pay what may be wanted for him if it can be done.

I have no time to write this time to the dear boys I send them a tender kiss and thank Hermann and Samuel for their billets.

For some days I felt Maries absence very much, I now am getting accustomed to it I trust a few month there will do her much good, she is extreemely affectionate and tender all the brethren say that she is well with the Stanes and I need not fear any thing!

Here all the people like her, ladies and the natives. Now Adieu. Marie tells me that She has written you twice from the hills.

 Yours aff
 J. Gundert

All the people ask much after you white and black all send love and Salams 
after all the Dobbi of the Garth. told so many lies that they hope to gain in the cort.
