Mrs H Gundert, <Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay>1 <care of Rev. Strobel, Coonoor, Nilgherries>2

 Basel 2 Nov 1859
My dear wife

Yesterday eveng when I had arrived here welcomed by the dear children who had all come to the Terminus I received yours of the 20th Sept. Fred. is indeed a difficult character and very changeable, after I had left he grieved Meuret much by his tirades agst school etc, but of late has been passionately diligent. The Lord alone can give the right direction to his troubled spirit and he will do it in His own time. Let us continue to pray for it. - No news of Hebich's arrival as yet. I am glad Mary goes with the Diezes - glad also of her friend Harriett's decision <Korb an Kittel>*. Let Convert do his best towards establishing the preparatory school I shall of course be silent about it until the matter be more matured, but I have always thought it to be a most desirable measure. - 21st I went to Esslingen once more, where my little Cognac bottle which I had in the coat pocket emptied itself quickly upon the fine Sopha - you may fancy how the ladies smelt and smelt, and at last laughed at me as convicted of secret dramdrinking. I hope the Sopha will recover. Selma is rather better than usual: her mind has something very undevelopped, partly by reason of her long illness, and partly I think in consequence of the peculiar training she has undergone. She takes things very much in general and has more a welldisposed mind than any strong convictions. I proceeded to Nürtingen by the new railroad (to Reutlingen); uncle has sold out his shop but does not yet know what then to begin. He has a first granddaughter and is of course pleased with _...3 the father of the girl is still lightminded, his wife more prepared for the consolation of the Gospel, since her mother has suddenly Grown insane. The 22d went to Tübingen, staid with Mrs Steudel who is much tried by the illness of her 4 sons - all ministers but none really healthy. Ernst reads a lecture about Luther, is very busy about it but altogether only in a scientific manner, without entering much into the practical value of the true doctrine. Sunday the 23d it happened that snow fell nearly all the day, the country looked white all over, a watercask was frozen; well, thought I, it looks like winter I had better hasten to Bale. 24th I held a Miss[ionar]y meeting at Miss Schübler's who is an old friend of the cause and lives with her sister in law an aunt of Pauline M. She is longingly expected by her relations, Mrs Mglg senior had only been somewhat disturbed by a report that the Comm. do not want the party to be so very large and will therefore advise some to delay coming home. But I am nearly sure that no obstacle will be laid in P's way. 25th I returned to Stuttg and saw the Elsaesser's. A friend Römer brought me a medecine to be tried for my complaint; I commenced using it and felt real benefit all the rest of my Stuttg time. You know that there they bear you on their arms. I went with aunt Emma to Waiblingen, saw Dean Bührer's and Pfleiderer's parents, visited Beinstein (Jette's birthplace) and Winnenden. The 29th I paid my visits to the Minister (Rümelin) to Ostertag (who had been here for his sister's burial) - and lastly to Chevaliers. 31st to Bruchsal and Carlsruhe (late, therefore hotel) passed the morning of first Nov at Sutter's, who has nice children and a good wife: and reached Bale in the evening. Farewell meanwhile and may the Lord be with you in all your wants!
 Your HGdt
