Mrs Gundert, Calicut

I On board the Carnac. 13 Apr 59

My dear wife

About 11 AM we got up our steam and run slowly against a head wind to Cannanore which we reached about 7 1/2 PM. Intended to land, but the Capt would fix no time, so we remained discharged some passengers as Capt Ewart of the 16th an old acquaintance married to a Cochin Lady ( Vernede). Miss Holloway very sick, so was Mrs Harrison. With Dr Harrison I was soon acquainted, he is truly nice. The dinner was raw, but with gravy and potatoes, followed up by pumplemoss I had the needful, emptied the little bottle gradually and slept soundly on the skylight over our cabin. (already 24 hours since I left you and je n'ai pas encore ‚t‚ dehors). Now we are near Coombla and I will try to post this at Mang. The Capt is a good natured common man. On board deckpassengers without number. Cabin passengers have been added at Cannanore, it is the ladies that delayed us - after all they slept on deck, where I discovered them in the morning. - I see that one of the former Misses d'Albedhyll Mrs Elton has died. - Meanwhile I have not much to say. One dreams rather than lives. In the evening I felt nearly sick but it went off after some sleep and I dare say I shall dislike this first part of the trip less than I thought at first. It is not so difficult as it looked from the shore. Discovered an Italian - whom I had taken for French, and another for German. His boy who acts the bajazzo to his father the dancer, talks English and tells me of all his trips to California Manilla etc. All sorts of peoples are on board - how few probably that care about the last haven where alone we can find rest. I hope you have had a quiet day - a little feeling of loneliness which will wear off as the Lord accustoms us to what he asks of us every day - not to look backward, but forward, and always hope good and new things from Him. Of ourselves we can but stick fast in what is old and find nothing to rejoin in. 
But he is the same and leaves us not to ourselves but forces or insinuates himself into the crevices of our empty yet preoccupied heart. Little shall we think of what is past when he once fills our hearts altogether. Well we travel that way and shall not miss our aim thanks to his superabundant faithfulness. With love to dear Marie and all the friends
 Your HGdt

Hier sitz ich bei Fr Hauff und Pfl trinke Kaffee mit Glasson und esse eine Mango - wir nehmen gutes Wasser und Milch an Bord
