5 Bombay 19 Apr 59

My dear wife

I wrote to you last from Ratnagiri the letter may not reach you as it was sent thro' a native. We had strong contrary wind from Vingorla staid half a night before Ratnagiri - that was after my service on Sunday and only yesterday found again smoother seas, so that we landed before 9 AM. I went at once to the Telegr office and sent you the message which has probably arrived in the course of today. We had a dreadfully crowded ship and therefore little pleasure but were on the whole a patient set so that there was little complaining. Dear Dr Harrison I love very much - he is a true soul and acts up to his light. Glasson was kind this morning at parting and Biran did me good service. In fact the Capt. found him so eminent above all others that he offered him good pay if he would stop on board the vessel. I sought then Isenbg's house and found it after some search. Stanger's not here, on board Pattimar from Coomptah. Wonder how it will be with them. Isenberg was very kind tho' he hardly knew me for some time I had become so stout. Mrs I. knew me better is very glad of your letter and thanks for Arrowroot. I ought to say of the ship that plenty stealing was going on - I lost a towel a shirt etc, but little as every thing was shut that belonged not to one's daily use - others had whole boxes emptied of drinkables, and the poor Italian player who showed his Californian gold and So. American diamonds to all the crew was robbed of them the next night to the tune of about 3000 Rs. Enquiry was impossible among more than 200 passengers. But you will not regret if on my return I prefer a Pattimar to such packing. 
It seems an age since I left you and am only 600 miles away. They talk of not leaving before next Tuesday - I half hope you will risk sending me a letter. Taylor wrote most delightfully, the Lord opens his mouth more and more. He will now be at Dharwar whither I shall write D.V. tomorrow. I must send you once his letter. He half promises to visit me at Basle. (May to Bombay June via Madr. to Europe) One of his sisters seems truly converted writes Gompertz. Müller appears to Taylor an altered man. You have no idea how I value now a little rest after this turmoil by day and night on board the ship. Harrison and I were there the only teetotallers - plenty drinking going on to make up for the poor provisions - but in secret I emptied 2 small Port bottles - not too much I think for 8 days. Isenbergs are teetotallers. They live very simply. Today mutton and potatoes, then pudding and plantains, done! The coffee oh how clear, the milk how sparingly applied. I really fear our Mission is getting too bellysome! It seems I have to take Mitcheson's boy to Kornthal. Now farewell. The Lord keep you in His peace which the world does not know
 Your HG
