 (23d Dec) [1859]
My dear Marie,

Yours of the 22 Oct has after all come to hand (23d Dec) - Enclosure into an English letter does not really cheapen yours. Stanes' relations had to stamp it with 6 pence (18 C) or 4 As and I should have had to pay 6 As for the whole distance from India. Therefore it is better not to trouble other people and use the post open to all. - Why do you tell me nothing of your "being unwell" is it right to let Papa guess what the illness may be? You have been to a nice* ... more* than I have ...1 see probably that you are not at liberty even on the hills to give up watching. First for the body because of damp ground, hurrican hall (= Bleak house) etc 2dly for the soul, because of dissipation, careless talking immoderate jesting playing and laughing. You understand I do not attack you but wish your soul to prosper and I fear, such a hill life does not add much to the powers of victory, enabling us to shake off old things and be strong in our Lord. 
I pity the good old Colonel or General - Tom Stanes and Dobbie will now be justified in his sight. Have you never seen Mrs Coffin? Give my Christian regards to the Stanes, Scudders and other friends and may they live and increase, like old Mrs Lawson!

 Farewell Your Papa

"Am 21 Sonnt. n. Trin. wurde P. IG Stanger, ehemaliger Miss. in Ostind durch den Unterzeichneten in die evangel. St Johann Kirche in Gravois Settlement nach Apg 20,28 feierlich eingeführt. Die Addresse des lieben Br. ist Rev J. G. Stanger, P.O. Carondolet, St Louis Co, Mo
 T. Ch. Schrenk, District Präses

St. ist also endlich ordinirt - und zwar ohne Zeugnisse von Basel abzuwarten weil er von seiner Ankunft in Liverpool keine Nachricht nach Basel gab, man also hier absolut nichts von ihm wußte
