 Calicut 3d June 1859
 <via Calw 5. Sept 81>*
 <erh. 22 __"_ 81>*
Dear Papa

On the 19th your letter from Aden, we were greatly rejoiced for we did not expect so soon to hear Thanks to God for His mercies to you, Now we are some what anxious about you, because of the war. you will have to go through England. You will have heard perhaps that our dear Capt Taylor who had the charge of the Pauna for Madras has been drowned at least the Pauna has not been found since the storm of the 26 April a steamer from Madras has been in search but in vain. His last letter to you which you got at Mang or Bombay came in hand a few days ago, how refreshing and fit to stir up one. Gods ways are wonderful, just taken before he went home what was awaiting him there?

A short letter from the Inspector too to you the contents you will have heard only about the Catechists and the welcome you shall get at home. 
Your writer sends much Salams the inclosed he gave 3 weeks ago we forgot it till now. Rama sends plenty Salams too, he reads the Bible with pleasure it seems. pray also for him; No news as yet of Mr Garthweit except his wife is very ill. his rempla‡ant Mr Chishnayen sends you plenty best regards He will write to you too. Salisbury's wife has been baptised and they were married he is not expected to live he is in the dispensery his children here, his poor family will become the property of the Mission I suppose! He is prepared for death the Lord has worked in him he had the Lord supper twice he has peace. I have seen him many times his longs are gone! 
I had a nice letter from Pauline Moegling and Diez whose wife is ordered to the hills; but she cannot go before the monsoon the Dr treats her, the midwife a native woman unnecessarily brought out the after birth which causes now the present sickness. she is at Tellicherry.

Hunziker wrote to Lauffer that four brides are coming out in October, one also for Mr Roht who has the charge of the girl school at Samutra 
Pfleiderer has begun his grand tour Plebst looks after the buildings at Mang. Hunziker is also traveling till Mysoor and Hoch wrote me that his wife is so poorly that she is ordered to Coonoor till the time of embarcation for home.

The heat is beyound any thing I ever* felt, some time truly trying and unbearable; every day almost thunders and threatenings of the monsoon; but it is not yet here on the 31 May as I write this. Sad news about Strobel, very ill at Coimbatoor, he can not sit nor stand from severe pain in the back and side. Fritz fears for his life. the Latter ist not better than he was here one day pretty well the next worse, if not fever some thing else. 
Mrs Stanger wrote to Pauline that they were going in the Duke wellington to Liverpool Last evening after English preaching walked in a black man dressed like a portugees after Salutation he asked that the book of subscription be sent him as he wished to give his mite to the Mission, meanwhile he put a R in Convert s hand, on inquiry we heard that he is Mr Abraham the dresser of the Jail who has but 20 Rs a month I have visited his wife and mother who live in a humble godown, both of them as nice as himself that is to say not converted; but they pray and have no one but God who is very good to them the old Mama remined me of Mrs Gaughs mother the drammer at Mangalore.

Mr Addis is very ill too, not expected to live. In Mrs Bean's house I heard that Mr Holloway is to come back very much desapointed he expected to get something at Madras or Tellicherry, he wrote to some one "in this world if people dont ask they get nothing I did not ask and therefore I have nothing" Edord Thomas acts for him; but we have not seen him he came only 2 days ago The Gospel in Burma is indeed beautiful extraordiniry fine, almost uncredible. What are we compared to those Missionaries Alas! where that love and devotion for the heathen for the churches I feel dreadfully back ward in love and prayers for them. Could but a few of our chistians like those in devotion selfdenial, zeal for their country men, if only our people had as much mind to recieve the word of life as they receive help we would see some fruits too. Lydia continues to grow in the Lord now and then I have joy in reading with the girls; but the women except Ann who is very nice are dead or asleep.

You will excuse me near Yette as you are at home it is sufficient, by you she get the news.

Convert is nice takes much trouble with work and school. The last Telegram speaks of war having began and of a secret accord between Rusia and France. You are perhaps to be in the midle of it! This evening first June Salisbury has been burried he died in peace his four little girls are at school. 
Your writer pays me a visit and says that a telegram was sent from Thompson who is still at Mysoor to Chrishnayen saying that Garthwaite will be here in four days and will act for Mr Thompson this month as schoolmaster till he return at the end of June Chrishna is to act for Garth. till that time. 
Mr Hoch and Moegling have asked Miss Will to accept Mr Kolb She wrote to me rather distressed asking whether I think it to be the will of God that she should take him. She begs pardon to have been so unchildlike and I have answred that if she desireth to have a home it may be the only offer, if she feels any love to the person she better take him. Hoch made the offer to give them the lower part of the english school and perhaps try to make Mack to live up and share their table

2d April it has rained much during the night it looks like the monsoon which we truly welcome with joy. Tell my sweet David that the other day I felt greatly joyful in asking Lydia the meaning of some pictures in his own book. She answred very nicely. I asked where she had heard it she said David did show me teach me all this book. My precious boys give a kiss to each of them for me, for I do not write them this time. Your presence is enough. many joy, and blessings I wish you I think of paying a visit to the Chaplain and see whether he could not get some help for the family of Salisbury
