 Coonoor <December 1859?>1
My beloved Frederic

I was very much pleased to recieve your nice long letter of October, I am so glad that you write me in english letters I can in this way understand all what you write, and I like to read again and again what you write me I was greatly rejoiced to hear that you now like Mr Moeret and can willingly submit to the rules. Oh my sweet Frederic nothing can give me more joy than to hear you are happy in obedience. If we obey because we are forced to it, that is a sad work; but if with joy obedience becomes a real hapiness. I feel the same towards God, when there is love in my heart Gods will is my joy and delight however much it may be against flesh difficult things become easy. I hope you will soon experience the truth of what I say. You like much Geography I hear. Your dear papa will help you in the study to make them, I trust he will be able to spend the winter with you, though Stutgard would be milder for him.

You are going to get a large addition of children in the Kinderhouse. I should like to see those brothers and sisters meeting each other after so many years.

My sweet Frederic I am very happy to know your dear papa is by you. You will profit by Gods Grace of his teachings and I trust he has joy in you all. if he was grieved by any one of you it would delay his recovery, therefore try to give him joy. I like the Hills better than I did 12 years before. I wash every day in cold water I walk also more than I did at Calicut. The weather is now very nice; Though there is no ice it is very cold and I put on three pairs of stocking to warm my cold legs. I am as big as a tour from the many clothes I put on

Now my sweet Frederic With a tender kiss I remain
 Your Mama J. Gundert

Dear papa I have been so long writing you every day some lines and after all it looks like a confusion. I had a letter from Mrs Young not many news. I have sent my answer to Madras where she had requested me to send it. 
1Lieber Eddy, meine* Freundin Louise schickt Dir diese Amerikanische Postmarke.

Mrs. Schaffter died three weeks ago - Beuttler's are coming up here Dr Leslie tells to go.
