 Calicut 22d Oct <59>*
My beloved Marie

Yesterday I got yours of the 17th you say nothing of your health; but your being so wearied this world and yourself shows me that you are not well. had I any one to come with me to the hills I would go there rather than to Tellicherry only I am afraid of the journey alone! Sweet dearest I fear you are still troubled with that old story <Barns>* and so spoil your health the spring of life alltogether, My sweet Marie I am distressed about you Oh cleave to the Lord and every day repeat. "Lead me not in temptation; but deliver me from evil. I every day feel obliged to tell it to my Lord for different temptations than yours yes! but know what is temptation, our Lord knew it too and has given us a fine petition!

Oh may you my precious child forget what is behind and cleave to the Lord who is more lovely than anyone on earth! I am so glad you are with your Louise in whom you feel a spring of love it has not been the case with me dearest Marie Oh pardon that I have often poured cold water upon your warm love to me instead of cheering you up. Assure me that you have pardon me, I did not put myself in you won* place and feel as I should have felt and dear with you and for you, My love had never any thing deed and could forget easily what you cannot. How bad I have been when you asked me to relate you something of my youth to be so cool and answer you nothing Oh my dear I did not know that I might have helped you and cheer you a little removing your thoughts from that grieving subject Oh Marie had I any one to take me to you I would go I have such heimweh after you. I would no more let you sit alone in your room Oh how hard I have been to my only girl Oh Marie if God bring us together I hope to be more for you yey* to be tender though I am by nature hardness itself. Marie I speak the truth. Our guest Mr and Mrs Mallaly two big sons and thre small sons are here; the papa and the elder son will go to Manantody where the son is to remain. the papa will come back in three or four weeks while the remaining stay here waiting for him Fritz shall settle whether to keep them here or take a house, that would not stop my going to you had I any one for the way. they are nice people 
Adieu my dear if you do not appouve of my note to Louise keep it Do as you like
 yours J Gundert
