Mrs Gundert, Calicut
 Mang 27 Jan 59
My dear wife

This morning arrived yours of Sunday. Fritz etc have all left. he has the pictures for you also the thread Cacao etc. I hope to leave about the 2d Febr. So you need no more answer this. Mrs Walker has now gone home rejoicing. Also a babe died of a drummer, who comforted her parents, saying don't weep I go to Jesus and 10 minutes afterwards she had gone asleep. 9-10 die daily. All listen to the Gospel attentively, both at the burials and in meetings. Richter has humbled himself, but Mrs S. is not satisfied. Of course! I think Mgling liked Ernst, though he saw he was not converted. Did you hear of Mgl's building a Church etc at Moocatti. His debts were much less than what I heard at Tellicherry. Of Mrs Müller I saw very little. All went in such a hurry. She is well with her children, also her Johannes has got over his homesickness.

David reads still all his old letters - over and over again, he read most on board the ship - From Paris to Basle they suffered much from want of water, D. then said when I come to B. then I jump first upon my brothers and next I shall drink a bottle of water. Esther liked Saurkraut etc from the first, Titus cannot yet eat such stuff. E. walks now with shoes and stockings, her feet having become too soft for stony ground. - With Ebenez I had yesterday a long talk and prayed with him. I think he wishes to be redeemed from the power of sin. Robert's death and the Cholera stories from Harihar appear also to have impressed him.

 Now farewell ever your HG

Fancy! For my examination labor I am to get 600 Rs
