 124 Nov <1859>*

I have now to write a very important piece of news which in the first place you will make a subject of prayer with Marie without making it public. Dr Barth at Calw has for some years been suffering and of late he has been told that his years might be numbered and that probably he has only months before him to set his house in order. He has been seeking a person to help him and take his business in hand. He asked Dr Werner then my friend Leyrer, who both refused. The latter asked him why not think of me. However, having the fear of the 10th commandmt before his eyes he tried elsewhere but was not successful. Josenhans whom he asked thought he ought to try with me. Accordingly he has asked the Committee whether they would be willing to give me away for this purpose, to serve the Mission in his literary department, whilst I might continue working also for the Malayalam bible translation. Yesterday the Committee considered the question. Every one was in favor of it except 2 Basle members, who thought it more desirable that I should remain at Basle. But after a long consultation they came to a unanimous resolution that they must allow Barth to call for me - that is, to address me on the subject, promising in case our treaty be successful to help out of their funds to any extent found necessary. It is therefore very likely that within a few days Barth will put the question to me - and I shall have to answer without waiting for advice. Hitherto I have refrained from speaking my mind on the subject. In fact all I know of it is perfectly by private communication. You know that I would prefer going to India and concluding my life there in whatever station I might be placed. But I feel that I shall not be able to put this call aside except I find - or God finds - some other person willing and able to accept it. There is much in this turn of circumstances which annoys and perplexes me. I cannot hide from myself that living in Germany will be a sad prospect to you. With regard to our sons all dreams of working once in the same field with them will be rudely dispelled. Also the girlschool at Calicut will suffer from the change - for I should think it most natural when once the matter is discussed that Marie should return with you and smoothen your entrance into a German menage. Something very unexpected at least must turn up if Marie was to remain in India, and I know as yet of no such something. How we should in that case manage with our 3 boys I of course cannot think of at present. That would have to be considered after your return. For the present you know all my mind as far as I know it myself, and I hope the Lord will give you grace to take it all out of His hands and look quietly to all that may come in course of time. It is now a month that the matter is threatening, but I would not trouble you with it till I knew the mind of the Committee. Now strengthen yourselves in Him and be of good cheer! 
Hebich advises me by all means to accept and have you soon back from India. 