<ad No 228.>* Corcelles le 3d Oct 1872
<(mitges mit No 231)>*
 <via Calw 30. Oct In Mt Clem. 20 Nov>*
My dearest Jettle

Many thanks for your kind letter I am glad the room is finished that is the wooden part of it. there remain still troubel enough for you. We have a good old friend near us who is 78 years old she can be the whole day at work in the Vinniards or in the fields, she is a true cristian gentel and meek. her age reminds me of your dear Aunt. The other day I had a visit from a distant cosin whose Grandmama I knew very well, we visited her au Locle with papa in 1846 she she lived 97 years, she was a fine chistian woman.

I am glad to hear that you had the Weitbrecht one evening, if Elise is still there give her my hearty love; I shall be glad to be once at home. 
Grandmama has perhaps returned from Barmen, when you write there please give my love and good wishes, Accept also my thanks for your good wishes on my burthday.

I hope that you shall have soon your oven without too much troubel, it is time for it! By this time you have the potatoes I trust. three begs from Nagold one from Moetlingen through Hannele she knows all about it. give them my love please as well as to all in the house. and to our neighbours when you see them.

I am often in spirit with you all and long to be at home, though I am well here too, Mlle Colin has just been here to invite us for the caffe, she likes Mrs. Broun exceedingly and would like to be with her sister in Stutgart. she has been a month there during the vacation.

Now my dear friend with hearty kiss and true gratitude for all your cares and troubles for me for us, I remain
 yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

I hope that you have good news of Mrs. Süskind.
