 [1872]

1Am Donnerstag 9 Febr 71 fuhr der Dampfer Möwe, des North German Lloyd von Horselydown nach Bremen. Er schreibt nun

 The Mowe 11th Febr 70 (ist 71)

My darling Jess, As the sea is a little calm just now I avail myself of the opportunity to write a few lines to tell you that I am safe so far. The ship did not start before 3 o'clock (statt 10 Uhr) and as soon as we came in the sea we had a tremendous storm which lasted till 7 o'cl. the morning. All the pass. were sick except myself who was almost all the time on deck notwithstanding the waves were overflow[in]g me every 5 minutes. I did service with the crew all of whom are Germans and thats the reason I was not taken ill. I tell you that I never saw such a sea in all my life and I thought many times we would go down. But thanks God we are safe now and expect the pilot in about 3 hours - as soon as I am ashore I shall post this and add what accurred till than. Now I must go on deck again as my watch is called to set some sails and take others in.

Ein Bf an ihn nach Hambg kam 17 Febr an (nur couvert noch vorhanden) der andere vom 22 Febr scheint erst 3 Maerz abgeholt worden zu sein. Auf beiden Adressen steht im Eck die Absenderin FEM oder JEM.

Geschrieben wurde er 20 Febr 71
98 Fairfoot road Bow


My dearest Julius <?Dreiß?>*

How can I express my sorrow at your long absence do not dear Julie bother about the property <Am 9 Mai ist J. D. in Calw>*

Soppose they shd take you for a soldier I have heard that if you stay longer than a month they can do so. Do not fly into the face of danger for the sake of money. You know it does not buy happiness, so why not come home You will soon get a berth and the sommer is comming dearest wont it be glorious. get your papers dear but keep away f[ro]m the Prussian Blues and come home, to Jess who is longing to smother you with kisses. 
I never go any where because I could not enjoy myself without you, I wd rather sit with Julie in the study.

There is to be a grand dress concert at the Bow and Bromly Institute. Lord Lorne and several distinguished persons will attend. Your little bird is as lively as ever singing all day 'oh' so happy him and I often talk about you and wish you were here.

Mr Milcame says you are the wrongest boy not to wish her (or love?) but wishes to be remembered kindly by you.

Papa and Joe long to see you so does Jess with best love from all and plenty of kisses from your own sincere and loving
 Jess

I know you love me and I am sted fast in my undying love _____ (For J wie auf jener Adresse) for my dear Julie Jess Doti (or Dots) - write again dear I wrote this letter in the study and it is quite dark
