<(ad No 238.)>* <Calw 25? Dec. 72>*
 <in Mt Clem. 20. Jan 73>*

My dear children

One word only to express you my best wishes for the new year we are going to enter in D.V. You feel I am sure with us that we have much to thank and praise God for many mercies and loving kindness, and specially for His great patience and longsuffring with us, this is every day greater for me. His long patience how He bears with me, so many unfaithfullness so much disobedience, so many sins, Oh His love unspeacable love that is our life, To day papa spoke on the 17th of John the beautiful prayer of our Lord, in it we can see what is His mind for His believers, that is the Glory to be one with the father and the son such communion with the Lord that He be the first and the last in every thing. How much calm, quietness, surety, is felt in our doing if we walk so with the Lord, The only wish of the Lord on earth was that the father be known and glorified. We are to be like minded according to Philipp. 2.5 that is the atainment the perfection we are to look for. were He not Himself, to perform this in us through His knowlege by faith, we could never atain it; To know the father and the son is Eternal life, how should we long to know more our Lord!

What shall I wish you for this new year, that which I wish for myself such knowlege of the Lord by which we are renued and made something like Himself. and for the dear children joye and peace with a kiss untill we may really embrace each other papa Mama and daughters

 Yours JG.
