 Calw 27 Febr 72
 <R 24 März>*
Dearest Elisabeth

By the last letter we heard nothing about your health, but I hope that you continue to be as well as you were when Samuel wrote that you begin to get red cheeks. Apropos when you see the dear Hodges give them hearty love from me please. We are glad for Samuel that the cares about the debt for the chapel is at end, it has been a hard lesson, With him we wish for a revival, for a refreshing season from the presence of the Lord, our labours are of little use if the Lord does not send His holy spirit. The words of the Lord come often in my mind All plants which my father has not planted shall be rooted out. The father drowes the souls to His son. who is the way and the door,

Since I read the works of Steinhofer I understand papas meeting or explanation of the bibel better. His writings are a great blessing to me. I read the bibel differently than I used to do, it is life and light. To know the Lord and experience the power of His death and blood is a different thing then to speak of it; all must come to reality with us, the life of Jesus mut become our life, that is Christ in us

How is going on your Ellene? The two boys are doing well Carl specially, he is very amusing and really nice Theodor too, they love each other much, however Theodor has many companions, usually such who admire his cleverness, and let themselves to be ruled by him

Now Adieu dear Children love to all those who remember us
 Yours affectly JG


1Carl sagte gestern zu seiner Mama: gelt putz mer mei Tischle (wo er geleppert hatte), sonst ists a Sünd und Du kommst in d.' Höll. 