 Calw 7 Oct 72
My dear

Best thanks for your letter. I am still somewhat tired from yesterday, which was a rainy day. Bad night, early up, to Leonberg, after which I drank my coffee and went to Church, saw Dec. Lamparter and wife; Zimmermann and his wife came to dinner. The latter is nice, I invited her to Calw. For the afternoon Staudt came also, so we had a nice time - 3 hours, and in spite of rain a goodly assembly. In the house a young lady Lydia Weigle with nervous convulsions lay already 2 days and nights without consciousness, but her heart seems quite right; she is the daughter of one who died insane. I return 4.30 - 6 o'clock, Jette fetched me from the Bahnhof. Then Jünglingsverein, after which I accompanied or rather followed the Weitbr's to the terminus, to bid good bye to dear Elise. Emma H was also there. Everything seemingly quiet but I know W. papa suffered severely, whilst smoking calmly his cheroot. Elise was manifestly kept up by the good Spirit's presence, she was to me very hopeful, I mean, like one who is to go and bring fruit that will abide. May the Lord make all his promises true to her and set her to be a blessing there at Jaffa!

Dear Uranie will I trust find the farewell that lies before her not too trying. I wish that all arrangements in the house may be finished before she comes. Mary's new room looks very proper and inviting. I see that a Mr Couvreu at Vevey has given the Moravian Mission 20000 fcs, that seems to be one of your acquaintances. A letter from Herm came today, but brought nothing new. I am thankful I slept very well this night and so will try and finish my Missy leaves and take them to Stuttg on Wednesday. It is a day of Minister's conference

Good bye With much love
 Your HG
