 116 Nov 72

My dear Mr Robinson

Many thanks for your kind letter from NYk d. of the 15 Oct, which was immediately followed by the order for Fl 342.28. But your trust in me seems to have been misplaced, as I could not prevail on Mrs. R. to accept of the present you wished to make her. You will I hope not misunderstand her. She is very glad to hear that your son has arrived safely at NYork, as she had been somewhat anxious about him, she will always take an interest in his future, but it surprises her that you should think of such a sum for a keepsake. Will had already given her a silk gown, which she received as such; and as she had raised the price of his boarding so far as to be no loser by it, she feels it a matter of conscience, not to accept of any farther gift. Whilst therefore thanking you heartily for the kindness expressed by your letter and the accompanying gift, she begs you to dispose of the 200 fl in some other way. She keeps the money meanwhile expecting that your 2d son might come over to her. If this is not the case, she hopes you will give ordres about it. I can truly say I did my best to present the matter to her in a different light; but as I see farther pressing would only distress her I must desist. I hope you donot mistake her mind; she is only too glad that the undertaking to which she girded herself not without misgivings has so far succeeded and thanks God for it.

She is quite willing to take James, should you resolve on this new experiment. There were already several young men with her who studied for Civil Engineering and mining in the Polytechnic Institution and she has one such at present. If J. were to come over, he would for the beginning have to share the room of Mr Towers Clark, who you may remember was quite prepared to live in it along with W. After some months he might also get a room for himself, when its present occupier enters the German army. She is well pleased with young Towers and hopes J. would find him a useful companion. 
There is no doubt, that Engineering and Mining may be learned at St. Our Governmt f.i. employs in the "Bergfach" a number of persons who have not visited a "Bergacademie", but finished their studies at St. Still I must tell you that in order to enter the Polyt. J. would have to pass an examination, and it might possibly be found needful that he prepare himself for the same by visiting first the Oberrealschule. Plebst spoke with a friend, professor of Natural History (Dr Werner), who thought J. would have to give something like 5 years to complete these studies; and even these might not suffice if the youth did not apply himself to his task with all energy and self denial. Plebst would be quite ready to lend a helping hand; being himself a mechanic and mathematician, the profession looks somewhat akin to his career. We trust you will be led the right way whatever that may be for the future time of the youth. If he has a mind for hard work, he will find enough of that in the Polytechnic. We think that perhaps more of this may be found among its scholars than with the general run of the University students.

I hope you will make it possible to see Calw on your way out. We are all well and wish you may happily accomplish all you had on your mind before returning to India, taking along a new measure of European health and vigor 
With united kindst regards
 to Mrs R etc
 Yours most sincerely HG
