 Bale 30 Jun 72
My dear wife

Yesterday morning I passed some hours at Rottweil and saw the 3 Roman churches but was disappointed in the expectation of hearing a sermon about Peter and his successor. An hour I travelled with Benzinger and his company who left after Schaffhausen in order to see the Rheinfall. At 5.45 I was at the Bahnhof, a young Haeussler von Calw went with me at the last he is at Saeckingen and knew me at once, wished that his father shd hear of our meeting thro' Mr Weitbr tho' honestly questioning myself I don't find any particular reason for making a fuss about it. Fried and Frohn met me at the Bahnhof, I told the latter all about his business. Fr was happy to see M's letter to him. Dav came late into the Missionhouse and passed some time with me. So this morning. Then I was with Insp. saw Lechler and others. In the afternoon I have a service. Dav will send thro' me the shoes whose thick Filzsohlen he has walked thro', he confesses that he did not measure the foot very exactly and will rather have the first pair repaired and perhaps another bought along with it. So this may lie over till I come again. Fr and D then went to Church and I had talk with Inspector. Bad news from China (Lilong) nothing new from Ashante. I will now say good bye 
I hope you are getting stronger and pass good nights. May the good Lord give you joy in the returning health and courage for a longer lease of service. We all unite in love to all in the house - Fred just brought me pen and ink to finish the letter which makes it indeed easier. We hear that Frohnm. has already written his petition in the way I told him and sent it off to Marbach. Insp was somewhat annoyed that he had not gone the first time in spite of the telegrams. He (Insp) would not have trusted them, but have looked for himself. Afterwards it is generally more easy to say what ought to have been done. So then good bye. The letter to Uranie is off. Fred finished the Göckele and saltmeat, he and Dav have still some of the biscuit before them. With several kisses
 Your HG
