 Calw 12 Mai 72
Liebe Söhne

Nur einen herzlichen Gruß nachdem ich gestern Abd 10 Uhr zurückgekehrt bin - 24 stündige Reise, gemildert durch Fahrt in 2. Classe von Brem bis Heidelbg, mit Wurm gemeinschaftlich. Also wohl da, mit Briefen und Sachen umlagert, wovon Correcturen zunächst Befriedigung verlangten. Sam und Herm haben beide geschrieben, ich konnte es aber noch nicht verdauen. Schlunk bes. grüßt Dich herzlich, es war nett in seinem Hause und seine Kinder schloßen sich sehr zutraulich an. Ich habe mehr Geld ein- als ausgeführt, muß ich auch noch bemerken. Nach Barm reichte es nicht, Robinson wollte 10 Mai in Brindisi landen, er kann mich zu jeder Zeit nach Stuttg fordern. Die Verhandlungen waren glaub ich gesegnet. Das Zusammenleben sehr erfrischend. Aus jenen Bemerkungen <"Fr Gundert zu frei" gegen Frohnmeyer>* Jos's nimm Dir eben was Du brauchen kannst, im übrigen laß Dichs nicht zu sehr angreifen. Herzlich grüßt und küßt
 Euer V.


 <ca. 11 Mai 1872.>*
1Dear Frederic

Many thanks for your letters. it is always a great joy to me to hear from you both. We hear that Mr Buser is worse here one is prepared to hear of his departure for a better world. the Wöhrles are of course much grieved not having a living boy. Please give my hearty love to dear Johanes F Let the Lord guide you in your communion together that in one way you profit by each other and in the other hand you give no offense or occasion to talk to those who suround you, specially avoied speaking together on the brethren or any one else. we can create as difficult moments as also get leaness for our souls, With the Lord to Him we have to have intercourse together. then it profittes and we keep a good conscience.

Your case we bring often before the Lord that He may soon care for you, however we say according to thy will. Yea His will not ours. we must have patience, all who are in Heaven have learnt, the discipels will have found long the ten days of waiting for the promise of their departed Lord. Without the fulfilment of it they could do nothing. So has the Lord waited 30 years before He could show who He was. So we too, learnen* wollen with Gods grace so that patience gets its ful reward

Adieu dear Son
 Yours affectly J. G.

Mrs Schaufter would not sleep with us, she came about 6 having taken a carriage in Pforzeim, she went at 7 Oc to Buhlach So I did not see much of her, she was expected in Buhlach the same evening

We liked much your pastor from Suweden.
