 <Calw 28 April 72>*
Dearest Frederic

What I mean by the words of our Lords prayer is that we come some time in such circomstances in which we pray the Lord to show us His will and lead us; we imagine that we seek His will; while in the botom of the heart we have a will and Gods will should become ours. I have several time experienced it; like the children of Isra‰l when they wanted to go to Egept <Canaan>*, they asked the prophet to pray for them to show God's will, whilest in their heart they had settled what they would do, We may do such things without being well aware of it and after ward we see how we have scheated our selves. If the Lord see we want some thing very much, we pray too about it; but cannot wait for His decision quietly, than He let us go or as we say lead us, It is not in vain that the Lord has taught us that prayer. Therefore when I repeat those words I mean that my God should put away the temptation, make me to evoied such positions in which temptation might come to my way. I fear I am not clear for you; but experience might teach you to say for you and for others lead us not into temptation, those words I say for me and my family, The Lord has helped you out of it with the Würzes had they entered in your propositions, you would have had hard to get out of it. So the Lord has made all well I am thankful. Mrs W. schäme sich that he offered you so little money; and we are glad that he has himself made it light for you. Trust the Lord and wait upon Him. We have to do the same for us and our children May He help us to believe

 Adieu dear son yours JG
 love to dear David
