 Calw 2 Jul 72
 <Basel>*
My dear wife

We were very glad to get the news from dear Marie and hope the illness of the evening went off in this week's fine weather. We have now also Lauffers here with their children, a great family. The dinner with Mrs Hoch went off quite cheerfully. She and Mlle Waser send you their love and are much concerned to hear you have been so ill. Mark is a nice fellow and gets ready for Mission service. There is much sickness in the Mission and laborers are more wanted than ever.

I have engaged Lechler for Nagold by Mrs Zeller's command, - as she told me for one Sunday in Sept, which is 1 Sept. this year. If Marie would kindly let her know of it, I am spared one letter more. The enclosed to Mögling some how or other!

To Emily Seeger the news that the 2 girls Mohr and Mader have found good Christian houses (Fraeulein Fellenberg and a Mr Bremi). I thank her for her letter but have not time for more.

Fred and Dav liked Mrs Hochs curry, I also as far as it went. Dav is very unwilling to come with me to the Mission supper, tho' it be only for sitting not for eating, but yesterday he sat it out. Mrs Zaremba told me then how cruelly Mr von Reutern wanted to deprive her of the pension which she has from her mother's and father's merits; but the Emperor was kinder than the minister of finance. She was nearly afraid of Fraeul von Reutern too for the sake of her brother. Zar is however a queer Christian, he thinks it worldly and unscriptural to report about a Mission, a Bible Society etc - as if Paul had not related of what the Lord had done through him and given an account besides of all the monies entrusted to him for the Saints in Jerusalem.

I dined with Wurms yesterday - tomorrow at Dettingers.

Herm's decision may be good for him, tho' he seems to be rather too much influenced by momentary impressions Goodbye; May the Lord keep you all and  Yours HG.
