 Corcelles 3d Oct 1872
Dear papa

Many thanks for your letter I was very glad to get some news from Calw, and hear that you are all well.

The children will have written since they are in Bale, I have not heard from them as yet; but perhaps today may come a letter.

Till now we had not much rest with Uranie in packing the big box which is to leave to day or tomorrow for Calw. and putting the other things in order. Mr Cullon came to see Marie after she had left. One does not like him much as he is some what stiff and dry. The Petitpierre I see often, we are to spend the afternoon with them. I wish to go soon to Auvernier as I hear Mr Convert is there very ill. his family is still in St Gale or where? and shall come too, his father seams to have but little hope of his recovering. Cousine Collin has spent the ivening with us yesterday, she is a fine soul; but much troubled in her family with the son who is to marry. 
Uranie can do a great deal and she does not walk bent down as formerly, she says that Wildbad has done her much good.

Please give my love to Emelie Seeger I thank her for her kind note I do not write as we shall soon be in Calw D.V. On the 10th to Bale one day with the children and Saturday to Calw I hope, the time passes very quickly, 
I am glad that Lucy has written once. Next sunday you are going for a mission feast. I wish you the power of the spirit. The pious peopel here appear to me rather cold and much taken up with their different concerns. I thank the Lord that we have so good so quiet in Calw, many peopel, good peopel, find no time for their Lord, they sigh deeply under the burden of cares and works.

Today it rains and it is pretty cold, Much love and kisses to the dear boys, Peregrina will have enough to keep Theodor during the vacasion "Carl is delightful and walks much" that is nice and prays for Grandmama 
Love from Uranie and from me to all
 yours affectly JG.

I have just got the letter of Lucy with news from the children 