<ad No 173.>* Calw 6/14th January 1871
 <In Mt Clemens 4 Febr. 1871>*
My dear children

I hope that Julia and Mary were much pleased at their Christmas and that you were all happy and thankful of our dear Heavenly father's gift in His son, this alone can make really happy. the joy about it is not momentary but durabel and increases as we grow old, the little girls have heard of that great gift and shall one day praise God for it.

Papa is in Stutgart I long anxiously to hear about Paul and David; for both of them lay somewhat heavy on our minds, David will probably feel how much more easy it would be if he had allowed himself to be redeemed in time. So shall it be for many many souls at the last day who do not accept the great redemption made for them, free and perfect redemption God be praised that we have accepted it and rejoice in it, my David too though he refused the one for militaire, however we do not know Gods plan about him. I am often grieved and distressed seing that on the whole our children are not fully the Lord's; following Him with a ful heart is a rare thing the spirit of independance has room Do people with you speak of the coming of the Lord? it may be nearer than we think.

<Zum Brief vom 6/14 Januar 1871.>*
1Apropos for Tinnes corstipation have I told you about a small piece of bacon or a small bit of unshlitt of candel to put in the body in the evening instead of lavement, not eat the unshlitt put it in the body it works often as well as an injection, and it is better than to take pills or other means as an injection. I want seldom something; but if I require some help I take a bit of candel before I go to bed. Tell us, in your next letter how she is, and with true love to you all
 Yours J Gundert
