 Wildbad 14 Jully 1871
Dear papa

Many thanks for your few line inclosing the letter of Eugenie L.<örcher>* Mrs. Mörike read it me, we were both glad of it she is a fine soul, she will have great joy about her brother,

I forgot to ask Marie whether she knows any thing about Miss Busser's plans regarding her return to Bale? Yesterday you will have had the visit of Adolph Mohr or More? I would have given him a letter if it had been finished. I thank you for the one you have sent to Uranie and for the few lines joined to it, It is from Mr. Petitpierre who had one from Fran‡ois with Friz extramortuaire he write as usual a very short note saying that one finds no will there of Friz. so the testament in favour of Uranie shall be valuabel, She is glad not to be in Corcelles, for the parents on Fillinger side might troubel her much,

Yesterday I went to the meeting Stadt Pfarer with the Colporteur had it on the text of the day. it was very nice; Mrs. Mörike presented me to the minister after the meeting, he asked who is to accompany you here. Mrs Mörike answered that it would be Muller, I shall perhaps pay a visit there one of these days, Frederic may dine with us if he likes.

thanks for the note of David, the one from China I keep though I can not read it; but rather I return it here I shall answer it afterward. 
Love to dear Marie with her pets, to dear Jettle with thanks for her kind note, love to all the peopel in the house and to Dorle G.

We are thank God nicely. Uranie is still covered with iruption, her stomuch not in good order, as I thought to take her to the Docteur, according to her wish, Mrs. Mörike advised us to drink no water it constipates and is too heavy for Uranie stomach, so we shall do this and see afterward whether one wants the Dr.

Now with love to Frederic and all also love and thanks from Uranie 
 Yours afftly J.G.
