 1Diaconiss house, monday <16 Jan 71>*
Dear papa

Jesterday evening came the Gerurg and told Paul that Dr Sick would soon come again to this house as he is better, and P should take no wine nor bier till he comes, Paul had already felt that the wine makes him more pain and heat and so had told me before he had heard from the Dr he would take none, The night was not good. he had for supper biscuit with winesauce which he likes much. however this morning he is pretty well, has stools every day, he thinks that it is not enough; but two and three times as he goes seams to me sufficient, he has a pretty good appetite.

Apropos Many thanks to Emelie for the gell‚e she has sent him, he eats it with pleasure, also love and thanks from us both. Yesterday we had 15 degrees of cold to day 12. I feel a little anxious about David who coughs. he finds hard his apprenteship and he is now and then reprouved, To morrow I shall dine with Mrs. Isenberg.

17th Many thanks for your letter I hope the Lord will soon make you well again, Paul is disapointed, wished much to go to C. his stomach is much better, this morning he has gone out already three tines and good he says. The night was tolerabel, he wetted one shirt only

Many thanks to dear Jettle for her kind note and for the oranges she gives Paul, he eats them with much pleasure. I pray also that she would ask Emelie for the bühne for the 16th Februar so that one has room, if the Seeger have no room Marie can ask by Mrs Herman. I have just seen Mrs Director Süßkind who feels very nicely and sends much love.

Anna goes again to morrow to Winenden she is pretty well; but she must remain there longer and she takes it very well.
