 <Wildbad>* 8th July 1871
My dearest Marie

Many thanks for your kind letter it has given us great pleasure, and Uranie is delighted to have the nice, fine cap you have kindly sent her, she speaks often of your children, yesterday evening she said, I imagine to see the two little boys opening my room saying bonsoir Tante, when children cry or play she says it is like Theodor and Carl, she is quite happy, sends you hearty love and many thanks, She has in mind to remain in Calw, that is after having put her things in order in Corcelles, which may take time till the next spring, as in Winter she could not travel. We like to bath and this idle life is still tolarabel, I feel nervous and dark by time, if it should come too much I would stop bathing for some days, I shall just see how it goes, if I can continue I would do it rather. I shall be very glad to see you here with dear Frederic, wuld you kindly bring me one pound of your omeopath Caffe, and the big watch repetition which Rikele got from Beisser Uhrmacher. I can know with it what time we have at night. I do not write more trusting to see you, love to dear Frederic, kisses to your pets and self
 yours J.G.

Please ask Miss Busser at what time she intends to return to Bale. I wanted to have her an afternoon it may be at our return I trust, Love from me send or bring me please some enveloppes bring also please a pattern of stocking for Carl, if you could get half a pound of good butter I would like it too 


Dear papa,

Many thanks for your kind note, do not take up your time in writing me, you have too much to do, a salam will also do from you. Our next guests in the house is a young girl an actrice comedient the theatre cannot take place if she is not present, she recieves every day some fine banquets, her mother and Grdmother are here too, they are from Carlsruh, as the grand mama complaind that the health or the young actrice was very weak, I remarked that her way of living might take her away soon and unprepared for heaven, she exclaimed "I am perfectly quiet. The Decan of Haul or Hall near Carsruh has told us that she was perfectly justified to have choosen such calling, he himself came to the theater.

Today you are in Altsteig I wish you riche blessings, I trust that Frederic is with you, We feel very nicely and I hope we shall bath every day till the 25th it would be then 21 bath We might then return with you to Calw, for you will have to take a carriage is it not? I intend to go to the Bibelstunde after noon, I did not go to the preaching With much love from us both
 Yours J.G.

Love to David

Here is a nice little boy who likes marken, can you send me some 