 Calw 15 Jul 71
My dear wife

So then Fred has come 12 1/2 pretty well after his night trip, he has however not refused trying a little sleep. He half thought of seeing you, but could not at last because he felt weary.

I had intended to see you if possible on my way. But now it appears that I cannot go via Wildbad, as the feast begins at 1 o'clock and I am to commence with a speech, so I must go with Müller etc at 7 AM in a coach or omnibus.

Miss Buser will soon return to Basle, has been only once with us, but Marie went to her this morning. - Mohr was with us and gave joy to all, but most to Frohnm. whom he sought and treated with immense tenderness as henceforth destined to belong to his class. It is not yet so sure whether he will be dismissed, as there is great want of teachers at present.

Mögling asks whether his wife and daughter (Lottle) might get a room in your neighbourhood, perh. also a chamber or bed for the servantgirl. Mgl fancies that I run to and fro and enjoy many opportunities of seeing all, therefore he had the good confidence in me that I would discover what he wants. It seems to me he is anxious to send her into Tannenluft (fir-trees air) on account of Lottle's catarrh which will not yield, but the Mama is difficult to be moved. Perhaps the news of there being rooms may allure her.

Mgl was besides very much startled about the Dr's view concerning his Paul (now 14 years and confirmed). No disease as yet of the lungs, but such weakness that in a few years it may be found unadvisable to let him become teacher or preacher. It came to Mgl like a lightning out of a clear sky. He longs to see the beginning of a spiritual life in the boy. For the present he hunts him like a cunning sportman that seeks to entrap a little hare and does not find the way to get at it.

It is about communion I am to speak to morrow and am still very dry and empty, but the Lord will help. I was invited for the Stuttg feast 25 Aug. but had already promised to go to Pfullingen. The Chinese brother will be ordained at Stuttg with 3 others and is to speak also, so it will be interesting.

From Liebenzell Theod Hermann came with young Fabri (the friend of my Abrah. Bredius) the latter is sick and looks very frail, only 16 years and might be taken for 26. I fear somewhat comsumptive.

 Now farewell. With love to Uranie
 Yours HG
