<(195)>* <Calw <19?/29>* Nov<br 1871>*
 <(In Mt Clem 21. Dec. 71)>*
Dear Children

Since we recieved your last letters we feel very anxious for you though we hope that the Lord has spared you with the Toun and hope that you have rain or snow, as we have. Poor dear Julia I pity her to be so nervous, but the weak nerves may be useful to bring her to the Lord, the many fears and anxiety which are caused by weak nerves make one to pray and seek refuge by the Saviour who is full of compasion and sympathy.

We long to hear farther how you are, has dear Tinne not felt moved and anxious? I am glad for her if she has good nerves. Mine are very iritabel and weak; but I see and believe that God has made all well, He gives to every one the kind of trial which is fit for the soul. If only we learn to know ourselves and to know Jesus Christ and drow life from Him so that He becomes our life. In His knowlege we learn the secret of taking from His fulness grace for grace, His word is then our bread. All the news you get from others Davids time is soon over he shall be here a few weeks than go to Bale.

 much love and kisses
 Yours J.G.

26th At last a letter heartily wished and looked for with anxiety mixed with hope. The Lord be praised to have kept you and the town where you are, we understand in some measure how quietly you went to bed after the rain had follen. I am also very glad to hear that dear Tinnes health is altogether better, no wonder that she sings to feel herself better. 
You want to hear the price of the food here, As far I know I will tell you, Potatoes about one fl per simri Erbsen 4 fl and 24 cr Linsen 4 fl. Mehl 8 creuser per pd, bread 5 creu Beef 20 creuzer per pf. veal Calfsfleish 17 c porck <or beacon> 20 cr, butter 34. 9 or 10 creuzer for four Egs till lately one could have one for two creuzer, but now no more. So one shall not make many goodle for Christmas as every thing is so dear. How glad would we have been to have you here during the last month. We hope however the time is coming that God will make a way and give you work here. Poor dear papa could well want un remplasant for some time, good it is that we do not make our way, but wait on the Lord

Adieu my dear children
