 Diaconissen house 30 J[anuary] /71
Dear papa

Many thanks for your letters of yesterday. The night was tolerabel; P would be pretty well if he could breath freely; but the opression seems to encrease Dr Sick who looked at him this morning, said that one needes not seringe the wound; but the ear only on account of the matters which go too much in the throught; they are perhaps the cause of the oppression; if it is the case poor dear Paul may have a difficult time before him I fancy; but the Lord can help in a way which I do not know. Let us pray for a peaceful end if it should be the case, the Dr said nothing except that about the matters, the woond is nice, he gave medecine which P is to take this evening.

You have in Calw a new Precepteur Stautmayer his wife is a niece of tante Mohl in Cornthal, she is a fine truly pious woman, invite her to the missionary meetings, she has been the mean of conversions in her home. I heard it today from Ellene Mohl, I have found Mrs Süßkind very nicely no gidiness today. Tante will send account and monney for the tapich, here one does not pay so soon one may quietly wait a month, Adolph is exceedingly pleased of the education his Samuel recieved by Emma, he is quite an other child, and yet that she is in his house every thing is in order. he paid a visit to P on sunday and we drunk tee altogether with Gustave, Does perhaps the 30 fl which P got are from Mögling, or Pretorius or whom do you suppose? Hermans wife has become thinner, Please give them my love.

Tusday 31. Paul had a better night, slept pretty well weted only 3 shirts, he is to day nicely. Dr Sick was here early between 7 and 8 Oc asked Paul to walk up and down in the room as much as he can.

So the suisses who thought the french right in some measure, have them in their midst, is it not the south armee under Pourbadi has gone back before the Deutsch till Pontarlier and are in Neuchatel? Paul inquires much about the war specially how it stands in Paris. Monday morning at 8 oc all the bells rung and cannons were heard, Paul eats the Zwieback gern so if you will kindly send a box for him and G.'mama Rickele had sent my box to her people on Christmas it has perhaps been returned, one might fill it again with zwieback. G'dmama and Tante have visited Paul found him very nicely, on their way home they paid a visit to Mrs. Süßkind who is nicely except some Gaut or rumatism on the side. Dr Verner came on Saturday repeated the invitation for me to go to them and gave back the monney I had given to their girl. David sends love, was by G'mama yesterday afternoon drank caffee slept on the saufa till supper. If the Lord grand that Paul continues as to day I may soon return to Calw, not before next week, he had some mercur yesterday evening against headach, he has walked again to day in the coridor.

Tante will soon sed account and money for the Blankets. I hope that you are all well. Kisses to the dear pets und hearty love to you all. If P. continues to be nicely I shall not write till friday or saturday. 