<ad No 175>* Stuttgart, Diaconnissenhause <Sonntag>* 5th Februar [1871]  <via Calw 16. Februar 1871>*
 <In Mt Clem. 8. März 1871>*
Dear papa

Good morning to you all, I hope you came back well and could sleep after the great fatigue When I came to Paul he look friendly saying he had had a better night, I heard afterward from Miss Kapf who had watch till one, that from 8 till 1 Oc he had rung the bell to change his shirts no less than 8 times, Miss Shott who watched the last part of the night said that it had been good. He has asked the Dr to drink again Champagne, the D. allowed it with fears that it may exite his nerves.

Adolph and Emma came to see you yesterday evening, he had a long letter from Anna; but no nice one. I have just dined with the dear Werners; afterward had to go home to fetch Champagne for P. who drank the little bottle half a small glass at once and begged that Tante would make him again Shoto (Schoddo)>* or wine creme; he is better to day than yesterday. 
Monday <6th>*, I met the Dr. in coming who said, "Paul strength deacreases rapidly, in december he was so nicely that he had good hopes of his recovery; but now the strenght fails. I found Paul as usual the night was not so good as the preceeding,

Yesterday after he had drunk the wine he slept awoke now and then saying: "Der wein hat mich betaubd ich werde nich mehr so viel auf a mal nehmen." He remaind in bed the whole day, ate his pfledele soop and good apfel torte which Mrs. Werner gave me, As I said that I had met the Dr he asked what he had said about him. I said the Dr finds that your strenght is diminishing. he did not say much, nor did he look surprised,

Dear papa do not troubel yourself to come so very soon, it is too fatiging and one cannot help wait to come, till the other week, Paul may remain some weeks longer in that state, should there be a change I would write; but please write him every time a few lines direct He has just got a visit from a young student Weigle or Weidele who came with his mother they remained but a few minutes, he appeard much moved to have seen Paul!

Tante Reiniger is in bed today with a strong catarrh and tooth ach and a geswollene face, with fever.

David has now leave to remain till 10 Oc at night, so that he will mostly come by G'mama to study for his work, he is becoming quite staut, has a trimendous appetite, Now Adieu dear peopel love to all, hearty love, how are you dear papa? I fear you do not sleep well think not so much of us. God is gracious He will make all right, and give us signs that P has found grace before Him today he sleeps again pretty much
 yours J.G.
