 Calw 25 Mai 1871
Dearest Marie

I am very sorry to see by your letter that you have still headach troz good nights, if it is nervous, rest and the change of air will do you good, that is with Gods grace. You have to do with Him, not with men nor with circomstances or what ever, with your heavenly father who in His great love has given you His only son, He has suffered for you He has redeemed you from hell, and all condemnation, and will make you free from all that which keep you or hinder you from a constant communion with Him, you must pray earnestly our dear Lord to show you whether anything stays in the way between Himself and you.

You know that true faith in Him let us experience what is that to have died with Him, burried with Him if we know these two things well dead and burried with Him we know also that we are risen with Him and live in newness of life, because He is our life and when He our life shall appear we shall appear with Him in Glory, All our aim must tend to this end, therefore we have to see how we are crucified to the world and live in Him our head, thats the great secret die and live. Oh for a greater knowlege of our blessed Lord, for grace to abide in Him constantly, and injoy His holy presence, You know also that the kingdom is taken by force "et les violents le ravisse" that is sell every thing for the great perle, We do not value enough that tresure and have besides it too many other perles which pleases us still. Oh that is a curse Paul knew that. Let us therefore begin afresh, yea today, make a covenant with Him. Watch and pray believe, trust, wait upon Him

Papa and Jettle tell you all about dear Carl so I ned not tell any thing except that he very dear to me. With love to all the dear Oehlers 
 yours affectly JG.
