 Calw 28 Jan 71
My dear wife

I sent a letter to Paul, this will go along, and one or the other will first fall into your hands. Here all is well. - I enclose 5 Thaler, of which please give Grandmama 2 Fl. for the taxes. - The other from Hermann I sent to Paul with the photographs to be looked at by all. - Apropos Jettle wonders why she gets no money or answer about the teppiche (from aunt Emma); if she had only the account she would pay it from her own money. Only there ought not to be such long delays. Also Marie complains she had sent to Ad. a box with things and 50 Fl therein by the Boten, already a fortnight ago. Ad. had promised to acknowledge it as soon as it arrived and send something instead. Now she wondered that I saw Ad. and heard nothing of the matter. Would you ask occasionally if he had received the box? 
You and dear Paul are continually before me, I ought to work much and bring little to an end. May the Lord give you grace to calm your heart in His promises from day to day, from hour to hour. Mrs Scheffel came only just before I arrived; she had been frightened about Paul's appearance, as if we ought to give up all hope. But I think we are called upon to hope against hope, why not also in this matter? It is an easy thing for our Lord to pour new strength in that poor decaying vessel, and we will patiently wait on him.

Fred's pleased me not much, perhaps you rather keep it from dear Paul. Herm's is nice.

Herr Oberpraeceptor's aunt Miss Laichinger1 died this night <It is doubtful. Mrs Hofrath Gerber died.> Of Mezger Linkenheil they say he has the smallpox, so there may be no Jünglingsverein in the house for some weeks. 
The flag has been hung out by the Weitbrechts above my room. The joy is great at the prospect of peace.

Mr Buser visited me a little at noon. There is great peace about them all, it seems.

I went home with a nice woman from Stammh who had seen her son a soldier sick at Stuttg and related about him. I put it down on paper as it is a good specimen of a peasant mother's experiences with her son. 
Now goodbye and let us take courage in the good Lord, who has helped our Paul through 22 years and will perfect what concerns him and us 
 With a kiss Yours HG
