 Calw 1 Febr 71
My dear wife

I was very happy on leaving today the house for a walk (Lodholz had come from Bale for Nag. and brought a letter of Feddy) to get your letter. So it seems the Lord is giving a token of having heard our prayers and P's sighs, and may be he still raises him from the dead. Let us trust in Him and be sure He does nothing but what is for his honour. Happy we are that we despise ourselves and look up to Him who does all things well. - Mrs. Staudenmeier lives with Seegers (in Roser's place) and came yesterday with Emily when I saluted her after the Verein. Also Mrs Dr Müller came again which pleased me as a sign that they have nothing against us. - The 30 Fl I thought from Bering Pretorius or Bunz. Did I not write it? - What a happy thing if peace should now be secured! It seems the French came not en masse upon Swiss ground (Sombacourt etc I thought of our estates) but only scattered portions of the army. But I think it now possible that all the married men be dismissed from our troops and David may with other recruits be sent to fill the French forts so long till the greater part be evacuated. I dare say the recruits, such as Lodholz may also be sent away in part, as so many troops will hardly be wanted. We are surely in good hands that all seems now so suddenly changed. He who does that with nations and whole worlds can also bring us wonderfully together here on earth to begin with serving and then above, where the thanking and serving with joyful hearts will never end. Then only shall we learn indeed what "peace" this little word really means.

The Zwieback I hope to bring along.

I wonder that our king has not yet given orders to pray in Church for the Kaiser. How slow they are in such things. We may now hope that things come soon to a settled state, and I for one am not sorry that the army does not enter Paris, as one hears already (in English accounts) that some of the Germans begin to imitate a little the French. It is well if they keep somewhat aloof.

When I got the news from Africa I was also glad to hear that the prisoners were so mercifully preserved through all and have a heart for their enemies, the Ashantees, praying that a mission to them may result from their captivity. Then the death of their little infant would prove the beginning of a new life for a whole nation. May it come to this!

Plenty love to all our good people esp. to David and may he possess (or acquire) his soul by patience and gain the victory also over Jaeger, instead of being gejagt by him. We pray for you and are much with you in thinking and working and trying to sleep (which sometimes is slow to come) Good bye 
 with a kiss
 Your HG
