 Basel 26 Jun 71
My dear wife

This is only to say that Saturday 6'20 we reached Bale safely. Miss Wurm joined at Liebenzell, then I succeded in imitating a most clever old shoemaker who slept the whole time from Staehlin's garden till we rolled over the pavement of Pforzh. I succeeded I mean in getting at least a 1/4 hours' sleep. In Pforzh bad coffee, but a somewhat interesting companion from that place, enlightened RCatholic and freemason. At Carlsruhe Irion saw us but did not accompany, told us that Müllers and Christaller were before in another carriage, we joined them at Offenburg after having had some talk with a Dr very active in sanitary trains during the war and with several halfcured soldiers. Mrs M seemed very happy about Hornberger. At Freiburg we took the Hahns also into our carriage At Bale we arranged for Colin, who slept in Plebst's bed during his absence at Freiburg from which he has not yet returned, accompanied him sunday morning to the terminus and saw him off, told him to let Uranie write by what train she will come etc. Then a long time with Inspector. Dinner with Dettinger Gretillac, Wurm. Mrs Gr. broke a wineglass just before me and made the white tablecloth very red; hardly had I helped in clearing the wreck when the girl came and took my empty plate away so as to pour the gravy over my coat. New consternation, bringing of sponge, warm water and processes of purification. Gr. seems to learn German and was nice, D's still very much occupied with their lost baby, the little thing of Gr. seemed exceedingly well educated - what superiority in manners over our Carle! Mrs Wurm asked much after you and Marie. At 5 Stunde at St Martin's which I held - then we walked with umbrella's to Christs' garden, where the inner rooms were filled with ladies, we Mission people filling the covered Verandah. No one in the garden any speeches inaudible for us, only in singing we joined. Reiff came to the supper with his ladies (I sent over Emily's parcel). Today the Conference! 
I hope the Wurtembergians behave well. In vain we tried to see them on our way or hear of their whereabouts. Bernard from Mühlhausen does not come, but several Strassburg people. Diemer a gigantic peasant of the Alsace is said to be thoroughly German, because the king of Prussia staid with him and called him even his friend. But Aldinger from Winterthur who also saw Diemer fancied he had lost in Christian simplicity thro' his royal friendship because he could now no more walk with his butter basket thro' Strasbg, but took gladly Ald's offer to carry it for him!

Fred came of course to the terminus to meet us, seems pretty strong and of good courage, stands well with Dettinger and Busers, young Layer and old Hess who for the time of the feast has come again to help in the Comptoir. Julius Dreiss sleeps with the students of the 1st class, Insp wonders how he likes that, I could not yet have a talk with him but he looks cheerful. Good bye With love to all
 Your HG



1Ich will dich, liebe Mama nur in Eile herzlich grüßen. Giebt ziemlich viel zu thun, aber es geht soweit. Entschuldige daß ich nicht mehr schreibe, es geht alles durcheinander.

 In herzl Liebe küsst dich
 dein Friedrich
