 Diaconisse house 25th J<an>* 71
Dear papa

Many thanks for all the details about dear Mrs. Wöhrle, the Lord has been very gracious to her, so short an illness and so peaceful death. Mrs. Sheffel will have told you that yesterday was good, having slept better trotz 6 shirts weted, he got up at 10 oc wrote a long letter to Dr S which Emma took him. So that we got the ansewrs at four already. to all the questions about drinking a few spoons champagne when he feels weak, eating oranges sweet things etc he said rather eate every two hours strengthening food, soupe, bouillon, Eggs, etc. Paul thinks that it is quite right, for he felt that his stomach was getting out of order, through all that stuff. he was very soft afternoon, beged pardon for having been rude to me, in prayer asked God to make him aimiabel and lovely towards al men, to make every thing new in him, also to make him soon well, He longth to see you. The last night was again tolerable wetted only three shirts, having got to drink and eat during the night he perspired less, the wond is no more changed at night. most of the matters come in the throught when siringed, he has troubel to get them out through his mouth he drows peinfully to bring them back in the mouth. Today he has just got a lavement as he did not go out sufficiently, he sits or walk as much as he can, for to lie pains him as the skin begins to be red where he lies, to day one will wash him with some peculiar water to prevent farther woonds Dr Sick hopes to come next monday and after some days of examination and observation he will say his mind about going to Calw, he was very nice with Emma and said so dear Paul sees that I mind it well with strick diette.

Anna went yesterday to W. Plebst accompans her as Adolph had much to do. 
Yesterday saw dear Jettle Aunt who is pretty well though the mornings are less good having a preasure on the chest. I thank heartily for the things sent me, Please send by papa as many night shirts as you find in the drowrs in Gastzimmer, for P one or two pairs of drowrs for me, there are no more knitted ones I know, the others will also do, If there is no more wine in the fass Mr Weitb. shall put the hahn to the next fass Shnürle Wein Riekle knows. Many thanks dear Jettle for all your troubels also dear Marie, how are your pets, Love to all, David comes every two days by Gmama where he finds to satisfy his hunger he has good appitite, Yesterday they had to walk four hours charged with armures, after ward he was so tired and hungry that he eat drunk and slept on GMama saufa Love from Paul and from all 
 Adieu yours J.G.
