 Calw 17 Febr 71
My dear wife

I had already written to dear Oehler, and send you with this his answer. But as Paul has repeated to you his commission I wrote once more to Oehler, as I fancy it does his soul good, to see that there is some gratitude earned by all the love he sometimes also shows to unthankful subjects. 
I am not troubled about you or dear Paul, but feel very glad to know that the Lord perfects his work in him and draws his affections out. Somehow they had been sleeping, though they had been inside, now we must thank and praise, that the inside comes out and that we have all reason to hope, he will not be disappointed in any prospect he now forms of what the future time is to bring. We are queer people, very soon shaken from our foundation, but what our Lord intends with us, He will carry out according to his royal plan.

Fancy George Müller has now got œ 467000 out of God, which makes 5 Millions and 600000 Gulden in our money. Tell it dear Paul as a fulfilment of his wish in childhood to become a millionaire. Now money is of course not the chief thing, but as M's heart was set on money he got it to his heart's content; and Paul's being set on other things he can also get them out of that large treasury, but all in God's own ways. Müller has now 2050 children and about 19000 have already been taught in his schools, whilst the number of orphans educated amounts to 3267. Some girls were there for 16 and 17 years. He supports besides 25 missionaries, circulated 2 1/2 Millions of tracts and has found in every way that "it pleased the Lord to supply us most bountifully." It is a blessed thing to trust in the living God. Now farewell with a kiss
 Your HG
