 Diaconiss hause 20. <Jan 71>*
Dear papa

This morning recieved your letters for which many thanks. Yesterday afternoon we took the Lord supper the pastor <Mast>* very nice with Paul, towards evening P told me, the promise of the Lord must be true, if two agree to pray for any thing it will be done; so now in earnest we pray that I may soon be well, as I said yes; but with thy will be done, he said yes, yes, but pray without doubting it is now the time for it. he praid first. I began to have some hopes, he was nice saying I have much to be thankful a room a good bad and many things which I do not know, I am too weak to think of them and praise God, when he makes me well I shall serve Him with a full heart. This morning I came early hoping he had had a good night; having got a wet cloth on the stomach against perspiring, but elas it did not help, he had no good night perspired as usual three shirts, The woond is very nice, the bone grows a frˆch <at least the Do thinks so, though he has not seen the woond since I am here but it looks nice> the stomach in good order; but he is very weak, there comes no matters more through the woond, but a little through the ear and most in the throught, P said to the Dr if the carrieure is stoped why still matters though much less than formerly? he said they come from the woond, Dr Sick does not as yet come and Stimmer has come but onece since I am here, P. would like to see him every day. 
21 Thanks for your letter, I am glad to hear that you are again well so that there is hope to see you next week perhaps, till the 25 you have much to do; but perhaps afterward Paul hope that when you come you will go to Dr Sick and hear about taking him to Calw. I doubt that he can go he is too weak. he seems to me every day weaker, however this night he slept somewhat and is contended though he had to change shirts four times inspite of wet cloth on the stomach. Yesterday evening he full of feeling said "arme mama Du hast so veel muhe and arbeit fur mich, wie long cans du noch bleiben"? I said as long as it is needful, now it is necessary I remain, The ice is gradually melting in side May God glorify His Name

Love to all
 Yours J.G.

P.S. I brought P in secret some champagne David I see every day at least a few minutes he is pretty well, but wet feet in the snow

<Georg und ich fanden Paule heute 11 Uhr recht ordentlich, er schlief auch heute Vormittag, hat ordentlich Appetit. Sick wird am Montag wahrscheinlich wieder kommen, sagte die Oberschwester.>1
