 Calw 17 Jul 71
My dear wife

I returned pretty well satisfied from Pforzh about 9 1/2, Knorr was there too and we saw very nice people. I might well have come by way of Wildbad, as there had been a change in the hour of commencement, 1 o'clock was written to me, but at 2 only they began. So I might have arrived in time by the railway, but it won't do to complain. I felt refreshed by a brother in law of S. Kullen, a hausvater Maier, who spoke also. Your news about a place I wrote to Mögling; we are informed by him that his Paul had an inflammation of the lungs which must be very carefully treated. Feddy plays much. Sam's letter arrived this morning, but news there are hardly any except that he is still not well with Diez and wonderfully silent to him, instead of trying to make it up in a moment. He is mistaken in this I have no doubt. He writes f.i. that he sees well, how the story treated by the brethren in their onesided way might lead the Comm. to steps that would make him consider whether it would not be better to leave the Socy, but he does not think it necessary to take any farther trouble in the matter, to occupy himself with explaining to the brethren or the Comm.ee. I do not send the letter as you could not read it and I do not like to send it to others. 
Paul Mögling is quickly recovering. Bertha will hardly come to the resolution of visiting Wildbad with Lotte. Certainly she will not go before the 29th when Hanna Weigle is to leave for Berne, and then she will not find you - it looks doubtful if for her own wants she will go there except she have friends about her. At least you have done your duty, don't seek more! With much love
 Yours HG
