 Sunday 15 <Jan 71.>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for your two letters. Adolph has spoken with the Doc Stimmer he finds the wound much better whether the strength last till the carriecer be stoped he cannot tell; but he advises Paul to remain here, Docteurs cares, heat diett altogether is better for him, he will ask Dr Sick about wine or bier for Paul he would give him some; but will firs hear from S. however in secret Paul got wine these 2 days, tomorrow he will try bier, The night was better also less cough it is not from the lungs or cheast but only from the throat it seems, he is some what disapointed not to be advised to go home I have promised him to remain here as long it is necessary, he would have liked to be taken to Dr Sick to hear him; but Stimmer does all with him, however if he does not soon come soon Sick I will be obliged to go to him to satisfy P. though he likes the new D. well. he is frieundly and speaks more than Sick. I paid a visit to the pastor here, he is very nice allows me to be here as long as I will even to sleep in P room, but for the present I go home to eat and sleep, perhaps afterward it may be wanted, I leave Paul the evening after 7 when he is again in his bed, his appetite is pretty good between the four or 5 meals he eats honny, orenges with pleasure. 
I do not go to the burial P does not like it one thought you would perhaps come

 Adieu love
 yours JG.

1Lieber Papa, danke für Grüße und Fleisch. Habe seit 3 Tagen das Gewehr, das anfangs schwer gieng, wurde gezankt, da die Alten es besser machten, jezt soll ich aber wieder mit ihnen machen. Sonst geht es mir ordentlich.  Herzl. grßd David
