 Calw, first Oc 1871
Dearest Marie

Accept my sincere thanks for all your good wishes on my birthday and for the presents you have sent me, the Photographie is really beautiful, the two children excellent, yourself looking better than you did usually here, and for the elegant peticoat what shall I say. as soon as I saw you at work with it I regretted to have expressed a wish to get one like it; for it is an immense work and you had a hard time with it. so that you could not work for own family on my account. pardon me and accept my best thanks for such fine warm needful object.

I am very glad to hear that you like Boll, remain there as long as you can it will do you good for body and soul, and dear pett Charl shall also be benefitted. I had no doubt that he would be liked from every one. 
I lived with Paul vis a vis the dining sall in the second the corner room a fine situation we had the sun the whole day, we saw from our room the peopel sitting at tabel, which made me now and then a little impatient at dear Paul who made usually that we came late at the tabel.

David gives very good news of Theodor who behaves musterhaft and is liked. All the news of Calw are given you no doubt by papa and Jettle, Yesterday I repeated our neighbour <E.S.>* that the tuesday and saturday were to be observed stricktly. I hope that you had joy with the visits which you got, I regret for you that dear Blum is going away. Please give my love to all those who remember me specially dear Mama Blumh. We have had wash but I did not help being not quite well. We like our new Rikele

With tender kisses to you both
 Yours JG

This morning I awoke with the words Possess your souls through patience, Before Paul was sent away from Tubingen I awoke with the words a sord shall pierce thine own soul. If I am to learn the real meaning of those of to day as we had the ones about P. God shall help also as He did if only faith and hope is preserved and increased God will care a chaque jour suffit sa peine 