 1Saturday <Febr 1871>*
Dear Jettle

Many thanks for your kind note and for the things you have kindly sent, for me I want nothing I let wash here, but for Paul still a few 3 or four night shirts, no long ones as the two last, if you do not find three or 4 from papa in the Almira Rickele might wash a coupel of the short old ones, for papa you will find two fine new ones in the almira where the day shirts are on the left side. the very long ones give him (Paul)* to much trouble at night to change and being thick they do not dry so soon, he wants 6 and 7 every night; they are put in water every morning, and some time not quite dried, so that one must have others, I shall every week let them wash at Bothnang So Paris has rendered it self God be praise.

Paul was very miserabel yesterday afternoon, to day somewhat better though little sleep, he got a visit from his friend F Muller who spoke very nice with him I liked him much. Pauline Summer brought him a plant with flowrs it pleases him, Till now he did not care for Zwieback; but he eats with pleasure the ones sent by Mrs. Heugle. I found Mrs Director Süßk nicely though she had this morning des ‚tourdissements, she has writen you about the person she is thinking to take if not Miss Woorm. If dear Marie would send me two of C. night shirts they might perhaps do as he has a flanell on it I would be glad. In the midle drowr near the small clock on the left hand are pieces of flanel lilae and red wrapped in a cloth please send them too

Rikele is right about the milch we cannot take from St. the Vegöle does not want anything now
