 1Sunday 29 <Jan 71>*
Dear papa.

The night as usual till two or three heat afterward some sleep in weting 5 shirts, the greatest troubel is now, when one siringe the woond, by the great exertion to drow out the matters from the through he gets much headach, after you had left on friday he wept saying I feel so elend, afterward he said what would I do if you were not here, he is rather dijected, to day 29 specially. Emilia Gundert has sent him a basket of flowes with beautiful italian grapes and a buquet with des violettes feichen which smell very good. Dr Sick has not come since thursday, he is expected tomorrow. 
Paul recieved an envelope with 30 fl, we do not know from whom do you perhaps know this writing. Also from Minister Wurm from Wolffshlugen some oranges with a par lines of love

David is not yet here else he would write too, Poor Paul is quite displeased with God he makes his complaints to dear George P who speaks very nice with him

Paul gives those 30 fl to help to pay this month.

2Freut mich, lieber Papa, daß Du gut ankamst, Dein Sturz nichts schadete. Gestern zog ich mit Dodell (1jähr. Freiw) in ein kleineres Zimmer zu noch vieren. Die Unruhe ist eine beständige. Freue mich, wenn Gott uns Frieden gibt. Doch ich will nicht so selbstsüchtig sein; der Herr läßt mich sehen, wie schwer ich was tragen mag und dabei lieblos bin. Nur durch seine Macht bleibt's im Glauben. Herzlich grüßend
 Dein David

Von Paul herzl. Dank an Marie, es sei ihm leid, daß sie ihm soviel Geld sandte.
