 Stutgart Tuesday <7 Februar 71.>*
Dear papa

Yesterday after dinnar a letter was sent to you when I came here I found yours for which many thanks. Now I find again one here this morning with the one of Uranie, I wonder that you had not yet gone mine,

I found dear P nicely the night was tolerabel after having got brausepulfers from the Minister whom Paul had called to his bed as he felt very uneasy after I had gone. As I came I found the Minister again with P. who asked for the Lord supper, and had told him his grief for being unkind to me and to others, so he beged pardon from me and from Miss Kapf. Let us thank God for this begining and trust that God will graciousle carry on His holy work in Him, he is soft and submited, He has asked the Dr what he thinks about him, he <the Dr> repeated that which he had told me, I met again <now> the Dr as I came, I asked whether it may still go long with P some weeks or so, he said it may go much longer; but it may also go sudenly he cannot tell, to P he said the caries is very deep. Hearing this Paul said to me I wish to finish my days in Calw if possibel with the Dr I have not spoken on this subject, it may be done when you come once not in a hurry. Yesterday as he was troubled with fever and complained, I said be of good courage you shall soon have no fever nor heat more, "When you think that I may die in a few days? it woud be too good, I cannot believe it. I shall recover." Afterward he pryed God to pardon his schwehr and viel sunde, and for grace to be kind and lovely toward all those with whom he has to do, also pryed to be soon made well and strong. This was yesterday afternoon, to day he is very quiet and submited, it seams the brausepulfers has done him god he is cool, he wanted to take again several times to day I advised him rather wait till evening or when the fever comes on, it may also hurt the stomach which is hither to very well,

Tante R had a better night.

Paul sends hearty love, as I also send to you all

 Adieu dear papa yours J.G.


Yesterday I met again Miss Kern who was going to Mrs Director, I did not speak to her as she was on the other side of the road and between us such drag <dreck>* or mud that one could not well cross the road

P complains that since yesterday he can not swallow well on the right side it is as if the whole was getting filled. (he can breathe well God be praised it may also be nervous, his voice is good)

P got a letter from Frederic
