<Herrn Dr. Gundert>1s Frau aus <Calw>1

 Calw 22 Jan 71
Dear wife

I was glad of the good news, first the decrease of discharge and then esp. the hope which Pl feels that prayer will be heard. May we offer it without doubting and yet perfectly sure that if not the exact petition be granted, something better comes instead of it. That word "soon" has many meanings in scripture. It says sometimes as Luk 18,8 that God's mind is for very quick deliverance, and also that he counts as a short time what we think long indeed. So we use also the word "soon" in the meaning of the Spirit, God may explain it as He likes! Also what appears long we will take as quickly meant and quickly enough executed.

I am pleased at the taking of the Lord's supper, it is also a mark of confidence well deserved by the good clergyman. - I hope you got the letter through aunt Emma. On the 16th Mrs Wöhrle was taken ill with inflammation of lungs, suffered hardly any pain, got weaker, took 19th after 10 at night the Lord's supper from Decan, at 4 in the morning a sledge brought Mrs Finckh from Reutlg. In the afternoon her hour came near. She asked her 3 children to pray each at her bedside as in the times of childhood. When they had finished, she had closed her eyes, and soon the last breath went off. In the morning she had still said, if you were here, you would now also visit her. Mary had never been there, heard only in the afternoon that things went on very quickly indeed. I visited yesterday at her house found only Marie Buser, the 2 other ladies had gone to the Walkmühle. The corpse did not frighten even Thodo, he stood very calmly near it, as it looked so peaceful. He also wished to be at the burial Monday 2 o'clock, to see how all is to be finished.

Friday morning before 5 the bells announced a fire in the Vorstadt, opposite the Löwenmutter (as Thodo calls the Löwenwirthin). It was queneched after one hour the upper story burnt where a Mrs Kohler lived with 2 children (in the Sonntagsschule). The woman could save most of her things. 
Marie passed the evening with Mrs Wöhrle's relations. Today the baptism is to be in all privacy. Mr Buser and Finkh came yesterday night it seems. 
I hope David goes on well with his drill and is no more so often reproved. 
Enclosed a letter <(pour toi seule)> from Feddy who has found a ready friend in a certain widow who informed J H of his wishes and hopes - I am sorry for it, but such is nature! Let us see what comes from it - this of course the Lady thinks will be kept secret from the sister, but who knows how it may embroil matters? Don't write about it, merely pray that God's good will be done. About the end of the week I hope to pay a visit. - Well may God keep you all and prepare us for His kingdom.

 With kisses Your HG
