<Herrn Doktor Gundert>1s Julie aus <Calw. d.G.>1

 Calw 18 Jan 71
My dear wife

Marie came very early, before 6, and related all about you and our people. It seems then that the wine must be given up. If otherwise the appetite is good I think the feverish symptoms don't matter much, coming perhaps from the general debility. - About David you must not be anxious, it is of course a hard apprenticeship, but he will get through it as others did. In a month the difficulties will be over and the arms have lost their weight. I think of course it would have been better if we could have persuaded him to chose the other way, but as he thought himself in conscience bound to wear the king's uniform, I can see the Lord's way in it and will not grieve about it. It is however good that he has friends who cheer him in this time of trial.

I was grieved about the unhappy feelings which Caroline's will excited in her relations. But on the whole I think she has done right, and we could only wish that her brothers and sisters may follow her to where she now is, above all the little things that make us often feel uncomfortable. I can fancy Hebich saying about all these stories: never mind! and rejoicing that the fight is over.

I think Sam. will change a little his opinion about the good Stokes when they live together. The latter seems to have a knack of being full of compassion for him self, tho' he means very well.

Herzlichen Gruss an Paul und David, wie auch der lieben Grosmama und den Plebsts und Isenbergs

 with love Your HG
