 Calw 6 July 71
My dear wife

Herewith a letter from Frederick which you may get read to you by any one. I trust you have kept David's letter for yourself, I was half forced by Jette to put it into her letter just as she wanted to send it off, but it was only for your eyes. it says that he will perhaps have to stay at Ulm, which may be no loss if he gets such good company of believing soldiers. 
7 J. Morning. Just now your letter for which many thanks. I am glad you both take so well to the new place and new mode of life. I wish I knew F Dub's address, but for a length of time we have not had it, except on a printed enveloppe which now at least seems to have vanished from my table. But never mind one can send the letter via Mt Clemens, which delays it but few days. I hope Feddy may arrive on Saturday, for a change seems required more on account of his inward health than for the liver's sake. How dependant he is upon outside things! - Also for Sam. I fear a little, he writes to Feddy his story with Palgh. from which it is clear, that it occupies his mind more than Mission work. Therefore are his letters so silent about souls and black people. It is all the great question of the responsibility for building the Palgh church etc the dear Son writes about it as if life and death depended upon it. May the Lord soon mend it and give his enlivening spirit!

Plenty love to Uranie we all send our best affections across the hill which those polite gentlemen walked up. Business hard - therefore no more for the present and with kiss I remain
 Your HG
