 Calw 5 Febr 71
My dear wife

I went with David as he will have told you and hope he picks up courage where it is to be found for running the race set before him. It is with him as with dear Paul, his task stands strange before him and looks so Godless, so human, so queer. May He see it in the right light and overcome its difficulties.

I had no genial company, but was in thoughts with you and dear Paul. At h.* 11.20 minutes I was at Calw, Jettle below with Julie Weitbr when I related to Marie and Jettle my short visit, they were both affected. The continuance of the feverish state seems to show that the days are numbered in which we are to look upon our dear wasting child. May the Lord give Him the victory He has gained for us and make Him partaker of the weight of glory, with which also the sufferings of dear Paul's body and soul are not to be compared in weight or number. May Jesus be sweet to Him! He can show him his tender mercy and Compassion also in hours of anguish and agony. And may He keep you up to do priest's service in serving and interceding and laying upon the altar! It will soon be a thing that is past, but the experiences connected with it will last till we see them all in ripe fruits at home, in the garners of our Lord.

A letter from Auguste sends us a preserve glass of Selma in token of their remembrance.

I was sorry to hear of Polly's grief. How much misery in the world! Let us be thankful, that we do not experience such like trials with our children. How is the perspiring, the fever, the throat? I fancy I ought to know the state of every hour, but what could it avail? I can only offer the poor child to his real father and say: Take him, but perfect the form in which he pleases Thee best! What can we do in the matter but suffer along with him and be thereby made tender for the mould in which He will cast us. 
Farewell with much love
 Your HG.

Carl drinks the leberthran willingly. G. Weitbrecht greets.
