 Diaconissenhause Februar <1 und 2 71>*
Dear papa

Wednesday <1 Febr>* the night was pretty good, weted three shirts, Paul feels himself weak; but on the whole he is I think better not much oppression, he thinks that it should go much quicker and is a little cross, but God has his time and we have to wait.

Here with, the account from Tante she has given me the monney 14 fl 51 C it remains with G'mama till one has to pay again here

Thursday <2 Febr>* the night was not so good, much dry cough the Dr said that it comes from the matters in the throat, he asks after letters from you. All of us have a cold, the little one of Adolph has fever one fears she get the measel or scharlah.

Mrs. Director <Süskind>* is in bed with rhumatism on the side she is else very nice, good apetite, no gidiness nor pain on the cheast, In asking for zwieback I might have asked for appels cake that David and self may have something. I think that there are still some appels in the corner under the staircase in our bedroom. I could also want the fleish extra<ct>* for Paul it is in the Almira where the sugar is, the one Marie gave me is soon finished, he takes three or four times a day, Plebst paid again a visit to Paul he is very nice the more I see of him the more I like him 
Many thanks for yours just recieved I cannot write to dear Jettle separate I have just seen Mrs Süß who is in bed but already better the rhumatism is moving so she may soon get up. The Aichele gets 18 crs Paul shall be very glad to see you he is weaker said yesterday I rejoice to be where no pains more shall be; but the Lord shall be all in all, he told me just now the Dr will not permit I think that I go to C.

This morning the Dr told to sister Barbara if the wound does not shut up soon so that the matters do not come in the throat there is but little hope for P life, he said to me yesterday (Paul) "it is now a crisis", I believe he thinks of dying,

I can scarsly write for visits and other duty. P says "behalt mich lieb hast Du geschriben" Ich habe Dich sehr lieb lieber papa und sehne mich bis Du wieder comt, mit Küss Dein müdes Kind.

David says that he does not care for appels cake so send none; but fleishextra and Zwieback Dear Jettle perhaps you would fine my thin knitted cap in the second drows wrepped in a white cloth with other woolene things if so send it me please Adieu with love to all
 Yours J.G.

As the letter may be too heavy I keep the account of Tante till you come 
I do not think that it will go so quick with Ps end but we may be prepared 