Mrs Gundert, Calicut
<stamped Dr H Gundert, Inspector fo schools, Coonoor>1

 Coonoor 27 July 58
My dear wife

It is true Stanes makes photographs and has also promised to take my likeness, but now with his hand he will be unable to do anything in that line for about a month. If the time will allow I shall sit to him before coming down. - Mrs Francis I hear is kept at home by the sickness of a child and the visit of Mr Philipps who is said to be very churchy. - The news about Schaffhausen are from Ammann, no details, because he is not in the habit of giving lengthy descriptions in his letters. - So you had the Communion the same day I enjoyed it in the Tamil Congregation Apropos did you know Floyd the 74th Highlander? He saw you at Cal. on his way from Maliap. I think He died Sunday 11 July 7 PM. In the morning he had taken a brother's hand and said: before the evening closes I shall be with my Lord which is far better - and it was done to him according to his words. He was a very firm follower of our Lord and gave witness of his faith on all sides. - Saw yesterday Mrs Baylis of Neyyoor who it seems could not learn Tamil but has a nice mind. They have also their troubles, Mr Mead gave over his Mission just in time as it had become very worldly. Their numbers have since decreased but in reality there has been inward growth. Today saw Mrs Coffin; she heard from the General that at Hyderabad some fear about the Moharum. Himself fears nothing. - Tomorrow I shall D.V. go to Ooty, where the weather is reported (by J Gr) to be very fine now. Perhaps you also have now sunny days. The Lord keep you both in body and soul. Love to the brethren  Your HG.

