Dr. H. Gundert, Coimbatoor

1My dear papa! please pardon me that I did make that <Schmierete>! Just when I had written my sleeve came over it. Please do not be vexed I will take more care an other time. Yours humbly M.G.

 2Calicut 9-10 June 58
Dear Papa

I hope you are not angry with me for not writing every day; for you know that I have not the pen of a ready writer; much less the mind of one. Marie supplies I trust to my lack towards you. To day I have been rather busy ironing and got some rhumatism; my old friend had left me for a very long time; for though it is the rainy season I have not yet put on my flanell. We have just now a few fine days! which makes the meskitoes rather abondant and troublesome; I have no news; but trust that Mr Fritz, who wrote you today gave you plenty! Do you still get good times with the Dr C. Mr Ward, and the Addis; may you have grace while you are there for white and black people. The Cooks have not yet paid back their visit. Mrs. Wells's sister little baby died the other day.

Yours of the 7 came to me as I had already gone to bed after 8. many thanks for it. We shall see about the H. I am glad to know through you already so much

Poor Herman I think I know well what the matter. his temper is the thing which requires a thorou change. poor boy I fear he has it from me. to be under authority will be very good for him that evil temper will hide itself perhaps decrease with Gods grace. to have it unrooted is a dreadful business. when I fancy it is gone I lack only opportunity to see it. I have had occasion to observe it again. It is specially when Some faults of others come before me having not truth and grace to tell it at once. I muse it inside then comes uneasiness and one may feel as Jacob did of Laban the face is not as before. So dear Marie she comes and says Mama have I done some thing to you are you angry with me. Well truly I did not think I had such an evil temper! What a depth of evil Mr Fritz heard much of Harriette H though Mr Lechler which may not be all true or see in the right light. Nothing exactly evil but of proposals etc. He thinks it would be good if she goes to Tellicherry and there the match may take place with Herre, if she is not nice she might even do harm to our child! Well we wait to see. Fr had no news of their coming

Now farewel.
 Yours J. Gundert.


1My very dear papa,

thank you very much for your kiss you kindly sent me and which I should like to return mündlich! - I send you some of my letters to Europa, Mama and I will still write to Basel and Corcelles, when shall all be ready? We will do it quickly. - Please dear papa, if you have time and pleasure in it, write to Herm. how to make currey! - I think they have still a little rest of curreystoff! - Mama told me to ask you for it. - I feel so happy in these days, for I hear the soft voice of my dear Jesus so clearly! As soon as my thoughts are wondering about, He calls me back to Him. Oh papa, I feel He loves me, oh that I could love Him more! He has done so much for me! -

I had written before a letter to Herm but when I read it again I perceived that it was very rude and not convenient for a younger sister to her brother. Oh! if I was more calm and had more Love! Well now, may the Lord of Love let you also feel His hand in your trials
 Yours ever Mary

