 Coonoor 23 Aug <58>*

My dear wife

You will know the handwriting of the enclosed. She is with mrs Stanes in her confinement. Today Mrs Baylis the Miss[ionar]y of Neyoor's wife was here spending the day with Mrs Hoch. Her girl brought the donkey she rides on, and the children took it by turns. It was a great amusement. Metz came also from Kaity paying a last visit. He seemed in good spirits and hopes for more fruit. At present the general drought is hard on the Badagas. Also the coffee plantations will suffer severely if this week brings no rain. When I think of these people I find again how happy we are in not having to wait for crops and clouds in the way of the tillers of the ground: oh that we were the more instant in prayer for early and latter rains upon the seed of God's word. - I saw more of Mrs Boswell on Sunday accompanying her out of Church. I think her very open and true and hope she may soon become more like her husband in childlike faith. At present she is still puzzled by many trifles she sees in believers f.i. that Mrs Groves cannot hear God's word in the English Church though the preacher be a brother etc She spoke in such a plain simple way that I quite liked her for it. It was amusing hearing her relate of a visit to some Plymouth friends, nothing but severe religion from AM 11 till 10 PM of a Sunday she will never forget - and how a gentleman at dinner asked her "and have you received grace" She said she hoped but that would not do, all laid down forks and knives and stared at her whilst the gentleman pressed his attack. I am sure if you saw her your mouth would soon open to her, and the heart first. - The news from Cal. Tellich etc are rather sad. I think we always trust our people too much, that is we ought to feel how utterly unable we are to protect them and they to keep themselves, except they be converted indeed. And if converted then only the watchfulness begins and oh how needful to us on all our steps. Farewell
 Your HGdt
1Mrs Hoch, Coonoor

Madam

If you have got any crochet Lace for Sale I should like to get some if you will kindly send it by the bearer. I hope you are better

 I remain Madam
 yours faithfully
 M. Cassey*
Tuesday

