Dr. H. Gundert, Coimbatoor

 Calicut 30 31 <May 58>*
Dear papa

At one oc I have sent you all our letters now at 3 comes yours of the 27 with the children's I regret they were not in time for the tapal to be sent to you; as you would have liked to answer them! Apropos the writer Philip refused to take the R saying that as a servant of Government he could not take it without Mr R s knowlege. if I think of it when I see him I will ask him. I trust you have by this time received all the reports or papers you were expecting. What ever I have received I have sent you three times written papers one with the german newspaper in which was I think my letter to Herman. The 2d one in which was Mrs Stanger and an 3d one of very thick papers all about school it was stamped 3 by the person who sent it; but I do not know whether it was from Alatoor. As for the letter of Mr Fritz he has never sent it. I am anxious about those of Alattoor for it was some of that paper you have from Madras which I have recieved and sent you. I do not remember just which day. I usually send you all what comes the next day or when sufficient for the post one or 2 days afterward! Our dear Goddard has come to spend one hour with us he sends you much love. I am glad the Addis have better news of their son. Yours of the 28 came too yesterday evening M Fritz will have Dumingo punised by the tapal master for keeping the letters so long

The Lord be praised for your being so much better. I wish you could get plenty Pom grenate If I can get any to send by Miss Philips I shall do it It reminds me of our Frederic who drank the tea made with the powder of the skin or shell at Chiracal I had some bottels of it.

Have you got a letter by the cooly for Rama? The Hayes came yesterday morning to the R and they stay 2 or 3 days. We shall pay a visit today Thomas drunk tea here with Goddard

Erst s letter is put in Frist s bundle which he sends off today. it made this to heavy

 With love in haste
 yours J. Gundert


1My very dear father only just say a short good morning. Thank for your letter will write more next time. Now farewell and take a worm kiss of  your affect. daughter M.

