 <Mai 58>*

You remember that Mrs Y had asked to send them the next report of our mission. I would have sent our letters for home as written papers; but perhaps they do not come so quick as letters and after all it is but 1/2 ans more. 
To day sunday may the Lord give you a good day. I hope to hear during this day from you. Anema old Ayah of Mrs Young has just come she begs to send plenty Salams to her Mistris Mrs Young. she asks often after them she likes her Mistris Mrs Bean, but no so much as Mrs Young.

I thought I had understood long ago that out of Christ I have nothing and that every blessing is a gift from Him! how have I forgotten that and injoyed numberless rich blessings, joy, peace, love without a real feeling they were pure grace. Now that I am naked as it were left to myself I see my ungratfulness and that indeed I have nothing but evil I thank my God for this lesson I shall also be more able to distinguish what is His and give Glory and praise for it. I have been very low and poor this days as if deprived of every grace and feeling of mercy. such naked faith that I feared some time the devil would even succeed to make me to doubt of the reality of the Bible, a little while ago as I was distressed at such state I was roused with the word he that over cometh shall inherit all things! Well over come. and what? this present darkness, this heavy cloud. this unbelief. fire and water even deep waters are not nothing as thought when they are very far away, Over come Oh dear papa even sickness did not some over come them in the 11 of hebrews And we, have we less claim to Him our phisician of soul and body. the soul is more difficult to be healed than the body. Oh for more grace and willingness to yield myself fully to Him. Marie is by God s grace yielding herself daily more and more I have good times with her, after fights and bitter roots in my wicked heart had been taken away to be able to speak my mind in gentleness and love to her. 
She has just told me that she never read my letters at Korndhal she hated them and could not bear me. Is not grace working in her Oh may I and you have much grace to deal with her.

<Edinburgh - 8 York Place - 14t. Decr 1857>1

