Mrs Gundert, Calicut

<Not found at Cochin Try Paulghat again>1

 Alattoor 6 Febr 58
My dear wife

I arrived here this morning before sunrise after a weary ride with a waning moon over me, and found the Schoolmaster sick of fever, so that I had to send him to Palgh. He has the fever hanging about him for the last 3 months and I fear the school will be greatly hindered. The boys had made a good beginning and are a sharp set, mostly Patters with divine names of every kind. I wrote to invite Lechler, but don't know if he will come. Obrien was very fine indeed, does nomore care about the dress of his children, laments over the state of the Chiracal girl school, likes Strobel much and hopes with childlike confidce that somehow or other all his children will be converted. He really has given up other great thoughts about them. The Tomlinson's I took tea with were kind and allowed me to speak, rather full of Smyth's story: it is on his account Mr. T. has to stay at Ponany It seems that Obrien has a good influence on them: you know he doesn't mince matters. Lechl's epistle grieved me a little on his own account. I wrote him plainly what I thought. May the Lord glorify himself in all these Missions with their various diseases and excrescences. I think L thought too much of his Industrial plans and thus they have come to naught. Ostertag is rather unnecessarily distressed about Haller etc. May they be kept at Basle from interfering too much in these matters. I think H quite likely to go on well 
- 29 children <von Hebich zum Abendmahl in Mangal zugelassen!!>* to the Lord's supper this is a tough bit to swallow at once!

Now farewell to all, Mary in the first place
 Your HG

