<Revd. Dr Gundert, Coimbatore. Urgent>1

 Coimbatur 4 Juni 1858
My dear wife

Yesterday I wrote the letters to Stuttg and Basle, and as none came from you thought myself dispensed from the duty of inditing yet another epistle. But also this evening brings none. It is perhaps the Monsoon that delays the Post. - Well this morning in compliance with Str's request I went to Mrs Poulson, rented the house for 15, gallopped back to write yet in time for the morning post and figured to myself Str getting into nice quarters. Comes a servant with a slip in Str's handwriting. "Dr Gundert at Capt. Boswell's" and says the Coolies have come and wait at the bungalow. I suppose it must be the wine and arrowroot, but he said no, Master's own things and Master himself coming - got sick - And really just when Hodges paid me a visit - there comes a bandy and Str slowly out of it - with dysentery. I nearly seem to have left him this encumbrance, but then he has the wet house - slept in that Verandaroom, had no right Cook, no order in the house, is so helpless, and Obr. fears the dresser a RCath bigot might even hurt him - so there he is now in for it, and I can now practise what has been tried upon me. Gave him injection and pills and arrowroot instead of broth and am most strict, watching for the Dr to improve upon my treatment. Certainly he was little prepared for providing for his outward necessities, when he set out on this Mission.

Str. has brought me the bottles and tin, from the latter he is now himself fed.

Saw the Hodges this evening. Met Harriet at the door and got soon into talk, she is stout and good English - understands Tamil too. But you will see her. Mrs H. related of many people. Dobbie is also up there with dysentry The Addis offered to do any thing for Str. Possibly we may go there when the H have left next week, as they are on their way to Palgh Ponany Cal. Of Grant they speak as a decided Christian, but of weak health, hardly fit for our coast. I hear that Arb. has yesterday passed thro' this and examined the school. I have not got a hint from the great man; who stayed with Ward it seems. My leave is in the Gazette. With book accounts I shall have done in future being relieved from all responsibility in this matter. So far good.

Now plenty love to you both and all the brethren besides, and may you be kept from all anxiety - as grace is sufficient for us and all will end well  Your HGdt



 1Palghaut d 2d June 58

Mein lieber Br!

Ich höre soeben von O'Brien daß Mr Bayley is about to occupy Mrs Poulson's house. Dies kommt mir ungeschickt und scheint mir ein Wink zu seyn, das Haus zu renten, weil es wirklich mir klar ist, daß die Chapel sich nicht so wie sie ist gut zum Gottesdienst empfiehlt und die Schule auch das ganze der Chapel nöthig hat, um nicht gestört zu seyn. - Ich bitte Dich daher ungesäumt mit Mrs Poulson die houserent zu settlen, was nicht so schwer ist, da Mr Bayley wohl nicht bis 10 Rs gehen wird.

Thue denn das Deinige - und laß' es mich umgehend wissen,
 Dein J. St.

