Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coimb. 7 June 58
My dear wife

Thanks for yours of the 5th received this evening with the enclosure for Sister Müller. I may send it soon as I think of writing to the boys. Next Tuesday evening I may start for Coonoor. C Müller writes of Hebich sending me per post 14 pomegranates. So Strobel may yet finish part of them. He has got over the worst of his attack and is now often sitting with me and gets stronger. Miss W<ill>* is stupid in this one thing that she wants such palpable love - and just from certain people and thereby is prevented from seeing where love meets her halfway. But she will get no invitation to Scotld I am pretty sure - and if she were arrived there she would soon feel unhappy no doubt. Mrs Hodges will tell you all about their niece. Mrs Lechler got her out in a strange manner, the H.<odges?>* are rather bothered with her on their marches, yet where leave her? I think she would make a good wife for Herre or another educational brother. Not that much of spiritual things can be got out of her. She has not as yet whispered on the subject but behaves marvellously well, prays, reads and likes to hear what is good. The H's are puzzled about her. I thought for a moment if there might be a door for her at Cal. to stop and do something - teach Fritz's children, help with the girls? but there are difficulties I feel and of course uttered nothing. Mrs H. will be very happy to speak with you about all their little trials (also money cares etc) she is indeed desirous for real communion and he gives also good witness before natives. Altogether I loved them very well - en passant as we do most of our things. - The Lord bless you both together and knit your hearts into one. I shall then also profit from it, probably not merely en passant.

With true love in Him - and a kiss to Marie -
 Your HG

