 22d F 58
 <Febr?>*

Dear Papa

This morning half past four as the rain began here, my thoughts were after you. No umbrellas, perhaps no key to open Marie s box and change etc. then I juped out of bed to see how much water had come into Mari s room, however there was not so much rain as it appeared to me and at 5 already it stoped How are you dear papa what says the Hambach? I hope you did not get wet or at least did not catch cold

This evening I read with the girls the prophet Haggai. Oh for such a spirit and grace to build the house of the Lord. May our Chistians also understand that bilding and begin truly to bring wood or stones. My love to all at Telli and Cannanore. Having no news I just send you these enclosed, Mrs Schmid still poorly the heart sick Mrs Rogers is just here with a letter of her husband ordering her to Belary by command of the Colo. She had not yet told her story the Wells are much displeased and say that she need not to go, though he has also a letter from the Col. of the Rg.

This morning tuesday I awoke with such beautiful words. In Christ we are more than Conquerors I was wondering why these words were as it were told in my ears and continually in my mind, is it perhaps about Marie that God will give us the victory over the devil which now keeps her captiv Oh could it be so the joe would still be greater than it was at Herman s conversion Mrs Muller from Dharwar <Hubli?>* has written a nice letter full of joy of having a real help in Mrs. Kauffman, their Bale children well, the little one becoming as useful as Emily used to be. Pray also that our next Sunday may be blessed, baptisem and Lord supper. Love to dear Marie and to all  yours J. Gundert

