<Revd. Jacob Strobel, Ger Evanl Mission, Paulghat, Coimbatore>1 
 Coonoor 21 June 58

My dear wife

Today yours of the 19th arrived. Did I tell you that Wiggins was buried the day of my arrival, died of fever after having been apparently neglected by his wife rather stupidly. Elisabeth Carr is married to Stanes'* overseer a Mr Dames. On Sunday I preached in the morning Hoch in the afternoon, about 16 persons present. Mrs Francis sent to ask today if I had any weekly meeting, she would like to attend that, but can not come on Sundays when there is Church. Perhaps we shall have one. - Major Carr writes from Arrah, has not yet shared in any fight but sees soldiers struck down by the sun, has heard of Mrs Hodson's death and expects I believe to be soon sent back. He appears to be nice in his mind. - Today saw Col. Clemons a friend of Metz. Polly is with him at Ooty. They came over as the General's houses were sold by outcry. Mrs Hayne widow of that former Captain in the 36th (we saw at Tellicherry and Calicut in 1840) has bought two and will settle a son as planter. She is still lively and holds fast her faith. - Hoch is still writing his report. It appears to be a long story. Who knows when it will come out. Amm. writes as if at Mang they were like sheep without a shepherd and wishes Hoch soon to return. Hunziker has given 7 of his people to the Collector for his new press. Kies for whom there were some fears has reached Guladgudde safely, but the country is still much disturbed in the whole South Mahratta District. - Hoch's Mariely is a puny child and not very thriving, the others grow a little boyish and wild, Theoph occasionally suffering from diarrhoea. Mrs Marriott, the sister of Mrs Hoch has died in the faith after a very clouded sickbed. The mother rejoices over her. Saw Mr. Arbuthnot today who seems to like Lord Ellenborough's resignation. Cook had recommended Arunachatam Pilley to act for me, but Holloway gives him a bad character, perhaps Crishneya will be appointed actg Depy Inspr. 
Now farewell
 Yours HGdt

