<Dr Gundert, Inspector of Schools, Coonoor, Stamped>1

 <Cunnur>* 25 June 58
My dear Marie

No wonder if you are sometimes funny, the world is funny and you cannot help being in it and part and parcel of it. How funny it will one time be to talk of the things that were. I mean when we are surrounded by the things that are, and will never change any more. Then it will be funny indeed to look back upon our funny tricks and ways in this "curious world, Mr Layer."

Today a lady sat opposite me that looked at me as I thought as a very funny fellow, being so enthusiastic about a future world beyond death and judgment, and making noise about it in my German accent. But somehow or other a good and gracious Lord can make us seriously to think on what at first looked only funny. It is a great thing to learn quietly to deliver our funny impressions about a great reality, and trust Him that He can use it all and put it to rights in the hearer's minds, though they feel disposed to make fun of it.

Augustine and Luther when talking of God find it very strange that he deals with us, with me, as if there was no other man on earth - both use nearly the same words about it, tho' they lived 1100 years asunder. You will also find that He is such a one, and occupies Himself with you as if He had no other matters to attend you. This I call a Royal way indeed. The least we should do, would be to attend also to Him alone as if there was no other God, no other reality beside Him. But we shall not so soon succeed in imitating Him. What do you think.

 With a hearty kiss Your Papa

