Dr. H. Gundert, Coimbatoor

 <31 Mai 58>*
Dear papa

This evening 31 came yours of 29 it is indeed a joy to get so quickly news and by Gods grace so good of yr heath Soul and body well Glory to God; we are well too both of us. Goddard said he would write to some coffee planters in Canara for the Stangers, though he does not think it will succeed; however he will try. He was much pleased with Hebich and learned much he said from him. Rodgers and Gompertz very good friends. Goddard was rather exited and nervous has perhaps not made so much progres as I would have expected, but he was nervous about his going home, on board the Capt told him he may have reading and prayer with them all though he is not pious; for G made himself known at once, however there is a weakness about him; but the Lord is strong for him if he keeps close to him. I hope your stay with the A may be blessed for both. The very next day the parcel of Alattoor came I sent it to you so it must have been the 26th or 25th*.

We paid our visit; but the Hayes; have not anough of us tomorrow still they will come to us for a part of the day Fritz is to send his Vandy for them. I sow Mrs. R in bad she is pretty well and baby too, Mr. Frere was there too he asked much after you he will come to see the mission to morrow. I trust you will get some pom granate by banghy sooner or later from Telli or Cannanore, let R dry well the skin and put it in Powder for tea. I write at night for I fear I shall have but little time with those friends who are good talkers. It is a good sign of A to be pleased with the story of 47 and to wish for a revival; may you have it indeed together there and we here; I have prayer with the girls by Classes; may God awake them I fear Mr Fritz_s bundle was sent late to post, in it was a letter of Gresseu which I am very sorry has been delaid here some days it got among papers and was forgotton; but it is not of great consequance I think

 With love Yours J. Gundert

This Gompertz is with Goddard on the ship going to Bombay for work he is afraid of the voyage it may please God to serve this for his good He spoke with Fritz showed much fear at going by sea Fritz had not sent you the letter I had mentioned you because he wanted it for the conferance 
all send you love and salams

