 Coonoor 21 June <58>*

My dear Marie

Mrs Hoch was glad to hear of you and that you remembered her in love. She will like to see you and refresh old recollections when she goes down which may be the case within some months.

I am glad you continue your lessons with Mrs Bean. It is very kind of her thus to devote herself to your service. Thank her also in my name for her attentions to you. - A mail via Madras may be expected about the 1st of July at Calicut. But in fact every week may bring some European news, as 4 times per month the steamers arrive partly at Bombay (2) partly at Madras. I wish indeed you may hear from the Ostertags soon. - Here I saw Mr Stern's letter to the Hoch's. He is very downcast about such an unexpected close of the honeymoon. It seems to me he expected to be helped on by her in his Christian career, and now the Lord commands him to walk alone. But He will have his reasons for it; as Samuel explains it in his last letter (about my having perhaps died) Isn't he a dear fellow in his calm reasoning from Scripture grounds. - I have received a new seal from Mr Plebst, cut by his own hand: you will see it this time on the outside of the letter. - Hebich is here expected and asked for by many, but he will hardly be able to come soon. I am glad you remember his explanations of the heartbook and that true love of his, stretching already from 1842 as far as 58. Your heavenly father's love however stretches a little farther, from A to O (or Z) from ao 1 till ao how shall we call it. May you always believe it. - <Dr. H. Gundert>1 is now no more at <Coimbatur>1 but Strobel intended to preach there last Sunday and finds the people accessible. May you also find access to some heart - big or little - with the message of eternal love  Your Papa


1My dear Sir,
I am sorry to say on looking over my Papers I find the Tittle deeds of my house is left at Ootacamund with the rest of my things -
 yours truly
 E.A. Poulson
June* 10th*

