 <31 Aug 58>*
Dear Papa

Yesterday we had no letter from you, the rain which is abundant has perhaps detained it, I hope you will stay at Coimbatoor if the rain continues for some days. You have a hard trip from Paulg. to Ponany and this. Hanhart is still with us this week he looks well; but does not learn so quick as Convert which perhaps grieves him. If the weather becomes fine Fritz will go to Tellicherry today or tomorrow. He has not been well of late, the liver out of order, if he goes Hanhart goes too

Please do not began your journey to Ponaney untill the weather be fine and go slowly with proper food. Glasson says our little horse is getting old we should get rid of it With love to dear Stroble
 Yours J. Gundert


 1Calicut the 31st August 58
My very dear Papa!

So we hope this letter will find you in good health at Palgh. Again on the way down to us! Thank God that He has dealt so well with us all. - Now there is a fine rain! The Glassons also were very anxious to get some for their plantation. For today Mrs. Gl. had invited all the schoolgirls to her house, but as it rains so heartely it will perhaps not be. - We hope you will not get too much on your way down! -

May the Lord bless you in body and in soul, and may He guide you safe back in our midst! May also He soon fulfil his word: Und ich will meinen Geist ausgießen über Alles Fleisch! May His spirit come also upon us to quicken me, that I may not fall away from Him. oh He must keep me!

 A kiss from your Marie

