 Calicut 15th July <58>*
Dear Papa

Many thanks for your kind letter of the 10th received the 13th the money you send is quite sufficient even more than wanted. A propos the other day I heard Mrs H.<odges>1 telling that the house at Paulghot was too dear that one might have got it for 1000 if one had waited a little. <Ich würde Mrs P nichts zum Wechsel von 500 geben. Ward war oben (nicht bei mir) und ist am 16ten zurück nach Coimb.>1 I was vexed at Mrs. H<odson>* saying to Fritz and would have gladly told her as Hebich told to Glasson, "Keep at your own business" We do not find here Diez s letter Fritz does not rememer to have seen any thing of it! I like the Hod better than I did at first 
It is a pitty Mrs Robinson is so distant from christians she deprives herself of many blessings. One does not know how to send arrowroot to Cochin by this seoson a cooly would cost much. I have asked Mrs Irion if she had heard any thing from them about the way of sending it!

I am glad to hear the little fellows rejoice round your fire, they carry perhaps like our David the sticks of roses you have cut? If our big sons have been accepted in Bale we shall soon hear much of our three little ones! they might be a help to the dear Frederic.

Here all as usual well thank God Convert is going to Coilandi for a few days, they say that at school he speaks Malayalim well. He has mended you clock it goes now well! May the Lord bless you for the Groves who are all coming to Coonoor I hear. Your ____________________________________ I read with a new joy and profit I hope
 Yours J. Gundert

yours of the 11th has just come. So I understand about the Hoch s and Mrs Hodgson her death I knew long ago

