Dr H. Gundert, Coonoor, Stamped

 <20. Aug 58.>*
My very dear papa

Many thanks for your kind note, I received yesterday. - The letters from Stuttgart rejoiced us too. Samuel writes like a soldier of the Cross who knows for whom he has to stand. Poor Hermann seems to be enchanted of the world of poetry and phantasy. - In the first beginning I felt that as often as I read only a few lines of a fine poetry or any poetic prose I was again half drowned in that reißenden Strudel and forgot all else. - Therefor I have put my poetry book quite away and will not look in it, as long as I am still so very weak in faith and things of the other world. I do not mean to say that I would think it any harm for other people to read it, but I would look at it as a real sin to read now myself for I know that it is a hard temptation for me and that The devil would like to see me reading poetry and would than all at once catch me when my senses and my will are absorbed. Dear Hermann may God help him it is a hard fight but with our dear Jesus it is easy. - When we look on Him how He so mightely did resist the wicked one, can we not have confidence that through Him we can also fight the good fight and be conqueror over world about and in us, over flesh and lusts over sin and death over devil and hell! - Oh thank God! I feel so happy for I am delivered and no more a poor slave! I am a Child of my father and also if I am but a poor a naughty disobedient child, still I am His Child! Dear papa! there are hours in which I can only sing at His great mercy, of which I never dreamed before! - Pray also for me that my dear Saviour, Redeemer and friend may help me to fight, that I may not fall asleep or become idle, cold and dead, but that I may remain awaken and living and if I am sleepy now, if I am often deceiving my-self Oh pray with and for me that He may show it to me, that I may have no rest before I have been made living and warm in Love. - Mrs Whitehouse I love truly, she was very kind when I was with her, at Cochin. Please give to All my love and also to Miss Eliza Cullin and Miss Vansommeren if you see them. - Now with a hearty kiss
 your affectionnate Marie


1Dear Papa

Many thanks for yours of the 17th which came yesterday evening and* being now friday it would be too late to send letters for home and Marie I think has sent you something for Stutgard. Samuel s is indeed a refreshing one worthy of thanks to our dear Lord who leads him so close to Himself. The second of Gopp is against my will shaking me and following me every where, how true are the proverbs about these sort of people.

Thimotious came too. Bess keeps the school diligently I am glad to hear her sister helps her. How strange of Whitehouse that made him so cool to you I suppose Fritz will go to Paulghot after some time. Hebich has no one to replace him so could not go on his Journey F. says

Diez and H. came yesterday evening having walked the whole way and preached. both of them looking well and not so very thin as F had mentioned, Lauffer and H. go to Kodacal for some days, Diez returns this evening, Hanna is nice and truly opened and improving Elieser still very dark Esther suspected to be also unfaithful to him.

Love to all
 Yours J. Gundert

Your last letter was not shot so seal on it.

