R Fitzgibbon Esqr, <Baloor, Chiccamangaloor via Seringapatam>1 <gone to Bangalore>1

 Coonoor 28 June 58
R Fitzgibbon Esqr.

My dear friend

I do not know where I am to address you, nor what your present pursuits are Of my person I wrote to you I think, that I had been seriously ill - but have been restored by grace and seek now to recover former strength by a few months stay on these hills. My wife and daughter are at Calicut, laboring in their calling, happily united in One Spirit, for the giddy girl has been visited by regenerating grace and praises now the Lord for His goodness.

I have been asked by a friend Mr Stanger, formerly Lay Miss[ionar]y on our colony Malasamudra in the S. Mahratta country, to enquire with you concerning an opening for him on a Coffeeplantation. He is a faithful person, able to superintend extended labor, but has been led on hard ways, partly on account of his strongheaded, and sometimes hard, temper. Ten years he served our Mission, and we had never to complain of his work, which was correctly and profitably performed; but as we would not ordain him, and he preferred spiritual labor to secular business, he became an Auxil[iar]y Miss[ionar]y of the London Society, in which capacity he served some years at Bellary. He could not agree with the Missionaries there and went into the Dept of Public works, which he has again had to leave, when the reductions commenced, especially as he did not like to be sent into Teloogoo districts, since his language is Canarese. He heard of your wish to give Christian instruction to laborers, and asks me now thro' his wife (who for 5 years labored with my wife in a girlschool) to make mention of his case to you. He would be willing to superintend a plantation and see at the same time that the word of God be preached to the laborers, and access to it be opened to the Children.

Thus much will suffice to give you an idea of what you may expect of him. I do not think that he would refuse even moderate remuneration, if he found a place where not all his time is to be spent in secular occupations. But as I am totally ignorant of your whereabouts and what your plans may be, I will not write farther on the subject but would refer you to the Mangalore brethren, of you are near them, and perhaps the shortest way, if you know of any opening would be, to address him direct (Mr. G. Stanger, Bellary) and give him some notice of the position that can be offered to him. Being at present without any occupation he will probably be glad to accept any place in which he can make himself useful.

I send this through Mr. Pfleiderer, who probably knows where it may find you without long detours. May you with your partner be kept by grace and press on unhindered on the narrow road - the few hours or days that we are yet to be on pilgrimage.

With Christian regards
 Yours very sincerely
 H Gundert

