1Perhaps you will be able to help a little your brother Frederic, who has great difficulty to learn his lessons.

 Calicut 25th August 58
My dear sons H. and S.

I was very glad to hear by the letter of the inspector that both of you have been received in the Missionhouse. I thank the Lord for having inclined the hearts of those who had to order it. - We have often prayed that the Lord would show what was His holy Will towards you. May He now prepare and teach you to be faithful witnesses unto Him. Dear Hermann I am especially glad for you that you are brought in connection with Children of God, under whom with God's Grace you may profit much; May you have grace to bear the Yoke remembering the word that it is good for a young man to bear it. - You shall also have the blessings attached to it. - I have been much distressed about you for some time and felt as if the devil had got some power over you; how glad he would have been to bring you again under bondage. We soon forget that he is like a roaring lion and that our hearts are desesperately wicked. -

The Lord knew well the craft of the devil, for He has been tempted and therefore has told us: "watch and pray!"

May Jesus give you grace my dear Hermann to live from Him and to Him; may He be so near you and replace every thing else so that the disappointements and difficulties you may meet may appear to you very small compared to His great Love! -

Now you will have time to write us long letters and hope you will tell us much about yourself your brothers, your studies and your … l'entour. It is a great joy to think for me that you 5 are together in the same place and to think that the Lord Jesus is preparing you there for His great work. - Your little brothers how glad will they be to enjoy you, though you are at present no more as it was at the time of your visit, when there was but joy and feast! - You will have your work and perhaps often a heavy heart; but unload it in the bosom of the Lord who is always ready to hear His poor children. All is possible to him that believeth! -

Now my dear Hermann I am often with you in the spirit and long to hear more from you. Your affectionate mother JG.

Excuse me to have written you in English, but I dare say in future you will prefer it to French and if not, kindly let me know.


My dear Samuel!

Your last letter has rejoiced me seeing how gracious the Lord is with you, leading you humble in the path of life, and near the still waters. I like to hear that you have good friends with whom your soul rejoices in the Lord and by whom you profit. Indeed the communion of Saints is a blessed thing. I was very glad to see that you would be thankful to be received in the "Voranstalt" - and now the Lord has granted you your desire. Praise and Glory be to Him. Your are now at school learning to become a witness to your Master Jesus Christ, the mere outward teaching would not make you a very faithful one and I rejoice to know that the holy spirit is working in you and preparing you for that important work, which you can already begin with those around you oh my dear Samuel! What a great Grace is that to be Children of the light and by the richess of His Grace to be made image of Him! by His fulness abiding within us, for we are One in Him. Could we believe and realise this truly, - God would do wonders through us. May He always keep you small and low to your own eyes and be your Shepherd and Lord. May you and your brother H. be a blessing also to the 3 little ones. 
 Your affect. Mother
 Julie Gundert.

