 Coonoor 8 July <58>*

My dear wife

Yesterday morning I rode to Kaity, the horsekeeper fetched your letter etc and brought it after me. Plebst came to meet me a mile before K. where I breakfasted. The latest news is that a Badaga with his wife has come to live near Abrah and will become a Christian likewise. Rode on to Ooty, lost some time in seeking for Dobbie's house and therefore visited Pope one of van Someren's sons in law. He had commenced his ...1 and could not come but the Lady came out ...1 kind. Then to Dobbies. George the Major and his ...1 (just come out with a beautiful Daguerotype of Maggie - and something for you from Mrs F. Anderson) Robert with his Mary and a stout boy, and the sick widower Capt. Harkness live together I saw something of Mrs G. Dobbie and liked her particularly. She knows Mrs Cummin, did not think her to be in a nice state, Mrs And. very fine. After dinner preached in Zion Chapel. Mrs Groves came there she seems to be getting old, but her daughter says that she is quite well. I think I shall see something more of her when she comes here. Mrs van Som. and her girls came for tea when there was another meeting: and then we four men sat up till near midnight. I liked much what I saw of Harkn. Mgl's friend at Mercara in 53 and 4. I slept in his room, awoke before him and came away without any one seeing me. It drizzled and winded, so I feared a rainy day and would not wait for Coffee went the upper road newly cut in dizzy heights my horse always going close to the brim in order to go to Kaity which lay at our feet. But I passed it without being blown down and came for breakfast to Kaity. Mrs Robinson will yesterday have reached Jackatalla. I saw her baggage all over the road Hope to see her tomorrow. Felt a little tired from the ride and slept before dinner. Pfleiderer is to marry Hanna Werner a cousine of Plebst. Gompertz wrote me a loving letter he holds now meeting himself of which I am glad. Hodson has left Col. Clemons (who with Polly came to Zion Chapel to hear me) wanted to go there but could not get that Regiment. The Stangers ask me to go to Lord Harris and speak about them!

 A Dieu
 Yours HG

Strobel writes that young Rehling seems to be converted

I send you this as Mrs Hoch gave it me to teach you how letters are not to be opened


 1H...olee 9th June
Dear Madam

I have much pleasure in enclosing a Hoondee on ...2 Madras for Cos Rupees 68...2 I cannot get one for Conn...2 - ... I have been ...2 to send the money sooner fo...2 the reasons I gave you* in my letter of the 27th May. 
 Believe me
 Ys Truly <an old friend>3
 M. Bushley*

