Dr. H. Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 2d Ja 58
dear Papa

Your letter of the 28th was cleverly put in my drower with out my knowlege so I read it only this morning and the one of 29th I had yesterday. If the people were to leave Bombay only in January you would have a fine time to wait, there is no more strong wind! I am glad you can get fuit kindly get 3 mounds of grapes the same of figs and Dates.

I had not asked Marie for Cacao; but for chocolate which my sister has sent I believe; but you had written to England yourself you told me once However it does not much matter, the chocolat and which Marie brings with the remaining Cacao of Mrs Fritz, will do till after the monsoon when we can get it fresh!

The Bull and boxes are to leave this evening As you may not be there I give a note to the man for Mr Pfl asking him to charge Mr Deggeller 2. <R.> 4 as for the boxes and 5 Rs to Mr Kindersley the Pattimar cost 5 Rs. 2 have been given the embarking and landing with food I put on the Kindersley for he has asked it in Richters letter. Mr Pf shall kindly give 3 R to the P man. and put the landing expenses at Mangalore on our account If you think differently just tell to Mr Pf what to do when the man come! The bull is very thin so Mr P. must not find fault with the Pattimar man as I have told him in my letter. I am very glad to hear about the case having been settled in Madras in favour of the Mission! Mr Kindersley says he was very glad to see you and you were as ever very kind to him! Miss Chatfield is said to be religious; but he has curious idias expressed already in a conversation with him. Kinderslay wrote a kind and long letter to R he asks whether one could get here Horses for his carriage; Would you kindly tell him that here we know of none; but at Cannanore those of the Brigadier Thomson were for sale with the carriage. He might enquire there. Mr Fritz could not find the Sanscrit Panshatantra to send back by Ri it is perhaps still at Mangalore! Kindly give direction to Mrs Deg about the 2 Arabian belts for the boys and 3 little books I gave perhaps you might sent that red belt I bought for you which you have with you if they know you have put it on they may like it then it would do for the 3 boy who would have nothing other wise, it would fit one of them I am sorry to have nothing else for them. If Mr Pf could kindly send a servant when they land the bull I would feel much obliged. Would you perhaps send by the Deg. 3 pieces of Gold for the 3 boys Pf has always some I think of 5 Rs each

Kindly tell Miss Will that 6 pairs of socks for Mr Thomas will be anough as one of our women will make the other 6. Ask please Mr Pf how much they spent per month or how much every one has to pay a month and are the boolocks and horse included in the expenses the Dobbie too is it in 
Fritz goes to morrow evening to Tellicherry

the children's letters have just come for wich I thank you


