 Calicut 11-12 June 1858

Dear Papa

A Moppla came to Mr F and asked 10 as for benches made for Vadagare. So on Tuesday you intend going to Coo There came from Maj Y. 3 newspapers of March. F. said they should not be sent to you as you will have seen them already. I have just got a nice letter from Pauline M. She will send you a parcel too and thanks for the one you have kindly sent her. Moegling complained of Dr Brett always cast down no faith or courage. Mrs Schmid has got a pension 50 per month, the two sons have got work in the post office. You shall soon get her letter, The Chaplain has just paid us a visit very friendly, thinks that Robinson is the very person for the work he is appointed to. It looks as if the second monsoon was coming. I hope our dear Goddard has got safe to Bombay. I heard nothing about the family of Angola or what place I ment to ask him and there were always people near. Haller is going to fetch his fiencee. Mrs Moeg is delighted to loose her! <Mercia>* or to get rid of her burden. Today is the 3d day without letter; I hope it is but a fault of the Tapal, for I am sure you would not make me feel my hardness as they say. and if you wish for a letter every day we shall manage to get "matieres". Marie is some what troubled with her ear, it pains her now and then! Convert is getting a great nomber of boys in his school. We are preparing the rooms to receive the Hodges though we have not heard from them as yet. If you know any thing which might do good to Marie s ear let me know!

Yours of the 9th has just come with these of our dear children. Good news thank God

With love pardon haste; but it is time to send off
 Yours J Gundert

To morrow you shall get the mercur

