Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coimbatore Tuesday 25 May 58
 Morng

My dear wife

After one of my best nights - with 1/2 a pill in the stomach - I awoke yesterday about 5 AM hearing the bearers come. I had slept 7 hours without intermission. Thus all inside looked as clear as the morning outside. Sent baggage by a (slow) bandy, and went well enough by Manjil passing 4 hours in the middle of the day at Valiaur bangalow, where I had a milkcanji made (with a cup of tea in the morning my only food till Coimb.). Arrived at Addis about 6 P.M. was well received, had a cup of winearrowroot and after an hour tea - then to bed.

All here looks bright and sunny - the roads firm like metal. Addis talked much of the Nilg Conference which all present appear to have much enjoyed. I have sent for the Dr to advise me; it depends upon him if I can next week proceed to Coonoor or must wait longer in the low country. - Apropos I have still thought of it sometimes but never at the right moment, that you ought to give for me 1 Rup to Glasson's writer, and another to a writer Philipps in the Huzzoor Cutcherry who wrote for me at Robinson's. Try to have this done. - Strobel was quite soft at parting. He is indeed of the right spirit however much of youthfulness there may be about him. We had much discussion and he receives thankfully what recommends itself to his better judgment. In his intercourse with men he has as yet little tact, but it is pleasing to see that he tries at once to come to the right point and does his best not to let the conversation turn to trifles. In Mal. he is fearfully back but I think he sees and feels it now a little more than at Cannanore where he led altogether a desklife. I asked him about ____________ - he had never heard of _______ jungle! nor of _______ etc. If any new brethren come to Cann. it will be necessary to see that they get more time in the first year to learn the language or they will suffer from it all their aftertime 
Now farewell - Had a good night -
 Yours HG.

