 Coonoor 10 Aug <58>*

My dear wife

This morning early Wh. <Whitehouse>* will arrive at Metup and may still come up today, I sent the pony for him at his request. Monday evening Mrs W. Stanes gave birth to a boy. She is quite well. As for Whiteh. he has allowed Beutl to ask Strobel to receive him, but to Str he only wrote a notice that he would send his Servants to him for Mal service if he knew the hour, about the Engl service he wrote to the Trustees of the Church and asked them for permission to preach in it. This is not nice, but just what we may expect from a narrow though Goodman. - Plebst had been here till yesterday. When we came home from accompanying him, T. Stanes was there to ask if I had preached at him. He was much concerned that I should think it possible for believers to fall so as not to be able to rise any more and wished to convince me of the contrary. I answered that the thing was not for him but it might do for older sluggish Christians who come nearer to the state the Hebrews were in when they received that warning. He left me a book to convince me of my error, but I cannot yet see it.

Mrs Coffin was in a dreadful excitement about her daughter who was talked of as engaged to somebody rather below their station in life. The Dobbies and T Stanes all got mixed up with it - and lastly I also got a bit of it, but I hope I am now out of it and Mme after all may consider me as having served her. For they wanted me to write to the General against her, and I have preferred doing nothing but only warn her against triumphing too much. Mrs Dobbie I fear is quite on Mrs Coffin's side, but keeps it from her husband. You cannot believe what stories there are all up here, to entangle anyone who is not wary - and occupied. The Lord keep you in His peace  Your HGdt
1again on the Hills, I am likely to return ... as soon as these rains are over. We have had a very moist month but just now it is rather fine - 
 Yours sincerely
 Eduard Thompson
