 29th 30th <May 58>*

Dear Papa

Many thanks for your kind and wellcome letter of the 26 received the 28th eve. I am truly thankful that you condecend to give me so many details about your health. May the Lord bless you abundantly and make His face to shine when all round looks dark. Yea He does all well and we will praise His name. We shall not regret in heaven to have been tried when we see ourselves perfected by the present afflictions which is to work a weight of Glory which is not to be compared to the present trials however hard or distressing they may appear now to my little faith! Many pray for you! Mr Thomas was here this morning he has spent four days at Kodacal saw much of Boshart; pressed him to make some of his people to cut stones for the church which B. desires to build Th. will give 10 Rs for every 1000 stones cut by the people of the Mission for the church. Th found B rather stingy Francis was married this morning to Tabita he gave a good dinner to boys and girls! The preaching was well adopted. fine clothes fine house plenty money is not the thing wanted! She had a rather expensif dress Gold all round

I paid a visit to Mrs Bean who has kindly offered to teach Marie english He was at home and inquired after you! she has been poorly with diarrhea! Miss Philips the eldest Mariam she is to leave this monday week with the little boy and live at Coimbatoor till Mrs R can follow with the remaining party then they go at Otti for some time from where they will go join Mr Robinson at Madras where he goes monday week. Mr and Mrs Hayes are expected on Monday so Mr Fritz who is to pay them a visit at the R will take Convert and myself to see them. Mr Grand is expected next friday; I trust Goddard may still come to spend a day here. as the ship does not leave before few days having not yet finished to unload and to load Coffee etc

Marie went to see Mrs B today; but she could not receive her, it seems she is worse We have a fine suny day; today nothing from you; but I have also not sent off waiting to have our children's letters Shall I not come to care a little for you? Dear papa. May you have much peace and joy by the Holy Ghost. I am of coarse much with you in my thoughts since you have had a releps specially. if I can be of any help please let me go! 
I have sent to the Tapal for letters, they said that they have been delivered to Domingo long ago; but where is the man I know not and it is time to send off this

