 Coimb 25 Mai 58
 <evening>*

My dear wife

Hardly had I sent off my letter when Dr Cornish came. He appears friendly, seeks perhaps to draw nigh to the Lord's people, as Dr he is perhaps more diligent and painstaking than very gifted. I had to tell all from the beginning told the different remedies and also how I was at Palgh. when he advised me to stay at least 10-14 days before venturing up, that the illness be first thoroughly checked. I quite felt that was the right thing, he told me also Boswell had written about his house for me etc From Ram. I learn that also the servants know of this. However when I spoke with Addis about it, he said don't bother yourself now about anything, don't fuss yourself etc which is kindly meant of course, but keeps me still thinking what I must do if I hear of any guests coming f.i. the Hodges who may be soon expected. In that case I should probably go. It is not very easy to know the Addis' in most mind at once they are not sufficiently free. When my Manjil arrived, for 5 minutes none to be seen, probably all tidying themselves etc. The lady makes my arrowroot, Ram must not, some things I say are not taken as seriously meant, with others it seems I should give offence if they did not pity me as a Convalescent and one not up to their ways. So I let matters take their course and remain for the first in their stranger's room. The dry bracing climate has at once had a good effect on me, the appetite returns, the Dr has to moderate it. His medecines appear also to have done me good as far as I have tasted them. - Papa and son A. visit me occasionally and talk of their incessant business. But I like them and wish only they had been kept less singular by living together with 1 or 2 Christ. Brethren. The Dr sends me papers, so I want none for the present. Fritz's bundle came (by Strobel stamped with 4 As) thanks for the stationery, but in vain I looked for anything else. I hope he has not put any letters inside, or they are gone. - I am glad all went so well with the Rob's. Str. has written feels now very lonely, keeps Paul yet for some time lest he be altogether ruined but has another servant besides. A Trichoor Christian youth has become his Monshee. Cat. Paul not quite fresh and well. Now farewell and be thankful for all
 Your HG.

