 Coimbat. 26 May <58>*

My dear wife

What business had you to let the black fellow practise upon your nerves. You are easily frightened and he knows it. There is nothing which he delights more in than to see you well distressed for nothing but smoke. - I had not heard of a Madr ship at Cal. and hope they may still escape. The Monsoon has even sent us a shower. So I hope you have now the real thing and take it as well as you can. Here people delighted with the abundance of rain they had this month. - Ramotti had his rice (_______) and Cambly stolen from him, prob. by a servant here, but the A.<ddis>* don't enquire into such things. They heard today that their son near Mysore jumped from a bridge he tried to secure against the flood and hurt himself so much by the way he struck the water that he lay with great pain and could only write a pencil note on the 6th day. They are very anxious about him, tho' no outward hurt is discoverable, that the fall may have hurt him inside. - The Dr is pleased with my progress (although the stools are still 5-6 by day, 3 by night) finds pulse etc improving, but hints already that I will have to try a sea voyage if the next months bring no effectual change. Knowing my tendency to chronic inflammations and ulcerations I had from the beginning no doubt that it would end in this that I go home for a season. But I still hope that this present change will set me up so far as to do some work during the remaining time, if it be God's will to have me still working. This I believe to be the case, only I shall have to go thro' diverse perplexities, till His will come out of them without mistake and confusion. I have no doubt I shall get rid of the official work now on hands, but I think God may have His own way in ridding me of it, and it won't do merely to shake it off. So I am now in the best spirits waiting quietly what will come next, but not uncertain about the final upshot. - This is about as much as I know and finding nothing else in my pockets I will close. Good night. Send me early letters for the next mail. On Wednesday 2d June I ought to have them. I will also write to Basle rather than Stuttg unless we get a letter from the latter. Probably 2 have accumulated and come together. Now farewell
 Love to all
 Yours HGdt

I eat now 1.) wine canji 2) tea 3.) muttonchop or soup 4.) 1 slice mutton 5.) milk canji. If I get up in the night some brandy and water, or wine. Eggs the Dr advised against for the present

