Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Palg. Friday morning 21 <Mai 58>*
My dear wife

The Cooks might have told you of our arrival for Miss C sat with the Subcoll. when Str paid there his first visit. I wrote Mond. morng but the letter may not have gone as they close the mailbag 8 AM tho' the post may not go for 10 hours later. On Tuesday eveng at last Str's bandy arrived but Paul made his appearance only in the morng and laid himself down to sleep for he had been drinkg! I fear he is very bad - I spoke kindly to him but he is very dumb and denies all. - Capt Francis expected but not yet come. Obr. says Miss Mortlock has got something, she opened her mind fully to him and complained how she learnt to dislike religion from witnessing the inconsistent walk of old Thomas, Capt. Fr. and other relations who were thought to be very pious. - Mary ought to take now care with the pony, for if he has once succeeded in playing such a trick he will be tempted to repeat it. Plenty thanks for her letter, but time suffices only for one today, so she must wait for an answer.

Yesterday afternoon I went to Alattoor, by bandy as the Cooks had taken all the bearers. I found the Schoolmaster yet more humble than Mr Gr. and more content to with his pay. I passed the night there, saw the Tahsildar, examined the School and returned in the evening. Happily no rain in going and coming. But the shaking of the bandy tired me considerably, and I shall no more try this way of locomotion.

You ask about the papers. I do not wish them before I am stationary, and then shall learn from Hoch if he gets any or not. If he can lend me the most needful the Ath. etc may continue to go to Calicut. - Mr Rob wrote to me to ask for news. His renewed promise of 500 now and 10 per mensem for one year makes the establishmt of the school a matter nearly of necessity. I hope to write to him soon.

You say well that revivals are here as much needed as in America. Would to God we had one. Yet I should not wonder if such a time be followed by a greater declension, for it is really wonderful what streams of grace seem to descend upon Newyork etc and surely man remains an ungrateful unfaithful creature, so that whatever present results the revival may produce, we may be sure, that for the mass it is but of transitory effect. But all these things are for the good of the elect few, and happily there are such that can keep the treasure in a fine heart. Now farewell. Grace be with us all  Yours HG.

About Monday night I may proceed to Coimbatore, to stop there perhaps one week. Address merely Dr HG. Coimb

