Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coonoor 19 Aug <58>*
My dear wife

Thanks for the letter of the 19th and what the Mercurs contained I shall be glad to take you along to Mang for a change, but I think we ought rather to go before the Hochs come down, otherwise room may be very scarce. My health is quite good, only I get sooner tired than before. Mrs Moer. can sell plenty lace and edgings only send them! - Well yesterday morning I rode to Ooty - The 2d half of the way W. Stanes was my companion, and the time went off quickly discoursing a ...1 lection and perseverance. He a staunch Calvinist in theory, but confesses that for himself he has not that assurance. I visited Pope where I found Mrs Taylor the Chapl's lady, whom you saw last Dec. We talked about languages and all sorts of learned things, you would have quite admired us had you been present. I felt little drawn towards the man however! Breakfast with the Dobbies, the Lady did not show herself, perhaps she was cross with me. If so I felt it very deeply of course. So much so that I shall no more go there. In D's carriage I went then to seek Mrs Schmid (that's a good boy n'est ce pas?). Stanes accompanying part of the way. When I entered the old Dr's house, Smythe and wife were occupying it, so for shame's sake I had to sit down and enquire. No answer yet about his case from Bomb. A successor appointed but not yet arrived. Then to Mrs Schmid next door. The girls were in school, she "kept at home" by a cold. Hears good news from Richter's, purposes visiting them in Nov. perhaps with Miss Hale who is likewise going to Coorg The young Schmids are in a Postoffice at Tanna, one Depy Postmaster, the other his writer. A long way to Mrs Robinson who has taken Mrs Hodges' house. When I came there, all hushed - but Rob. himself came out, arrived but 2 days ago, and in hurry because of "his girls'2 illness" from a cold. It is Miss Ph. whom the Dr pronounces dangerously ill. He related of all he saw, interested himself in Palgh and Calicut will visit us at Coonoor. Now it was time to fetch Stanes for dinner, but he could not wait for me, and when I returned I found them deeply engaged in dining. Then meeting where I bid farewell to the Clemons (who also are soon to start for Vizagap.). The evening was spent with the Coombes and Mrs Hayne and McAlpin. Mrs G. Dobbie gave me the present of Mrs And. for you (and for Mrs C Müller) 4 canarese sisters get also some. Mrs Hoch's looks the largest. I hope this does not make you jealous. - Then I bid goodbye but Harkness insisted on going with me a little in the morning I was ready at 6 but Harkn. and R Dobb. at 6 3/4 and then we passed through the fine public garden. When I had parted from them I looked in upon the Whitehouse, just at tea, talked a little about Groves, whose life Scudder had lent them (I thought Wh. warmer than before, as if he had found it that I was no Plymouthian) and then back by a hot ride.

Now farewell
 Your HG.

