 Coonoor 27 June 58

My dear wife

The Sunday is now nearly over - it is late at night, but I will still thank you for your letter of the 25th. __________ is not blessedness, but "declaring one to be blessed" ______ means saying, calling (_________ is speaking against each other) You allude probably to Rom 4,9. - At 11 I went to Scudder's schoolhouse, had to wait with the Congregation more than 1/2 an hour for the Miss[ionar]y during which time I talked with the Catechist, a man of Schaffter's. Saw also Satyanaden now Scudder's schoolmaster. He has a very sinister look. Chinnappen's Martha was there apparently glad to see me. The Miss[ionar]y and wife came at last and there was solemn liturgy and a baptism. Then sermon very good Tamil and clever illustration but little of the heart of the gospel. It was nearly 2 before I returned. In the afternoon I preached Engl. to rather a large congregation. Young Thomas (George) was also there and Mrs Francis, also Mrs Philipps whom I had once known, and mistook last Friday for Miss Mortlock. They had been at Cal. (acting for Cook) but without seeing us. I preached on the last verses of Hebr IX and felt it greatly that we have but one Jesus. I hear a party is coming over from Ooty headed by Mrs Groves Mrs Coffin etc who will be our neighbours for some days. May we have something to give them. You know how full these hills are of unprofitable talk and I pray we may be kept from it. Young writes to me that, apparently at Madras, Miss Jessie's case was much talked of and we come also in for our share of vituperation. This matters but little; I wish however to see the poor girl, who from all accounts appears to be still thoughtless. The particulars of her case I have not heard, and shall of course not inquire after them. How slow even selfconvicted sinners are to come to Jesus! - Tom Stanes was here and we accompanied him homewards part of his way. What a nice fellow he is - always disturbed where he feels love is not aimed after as the first Commandment of the N.T. He walks closely with the Lord. - Won't fear the cold for me. We had again a very fine and sunny day It must be a mild Monsoon. I wrote yesterday to Mr Thompson, and will write once more to the Director to be satisfied with his examination as far as it went. - Strobel will leave for Palghaut on Tuesday morning. He is pleased with his Coimb. trip but sorry to see Addis so dispirited. He finds what a freshness of spirit Heb has preserved by grace: and it is worthy of all thanks to our good Lord. The Lehm's seem to profit by Heb's preaching, she esp. by his prayers. 
Now farewell Grace be with you
 Your H.G.



 1Palghat. Friday Evening.

My dear Sir

I am just arrived safe to this, but am very sorry to say that the letter Dr Gundert gave me to give Mr O'Brien - is lost thro' my carelessness. 
I hope that you are improving in health and Be2
 Believe me
 Dear Sir
 Your's faithfully
 A.C. Rehling.

