Just now received your letter, best thanks1
 2Calicut <Cannanore>* d. 25 Februar 1858
Ma trŠs chŠre Maman!

Pas encore une petite lettre de ta part nous a r‚jouit, mais comme je sais que tu es toujours tant occup‚e, j'espŠre que c'est seulement le manque de temps, qui ne te permet pas d'‚crire et que tu te portes pourtant bien. Ce matin nous sommes justement arriv‚s ici de Cananore, o— j'‚tais trŠs heureuse. J'aime Monsieur Hebich tant qu'il me semble, je ne pourrais pas l'aimer de plus. Il a beaucoup parl‚ avec moi, d'une maniŠre qui m'a fait plus d'impression que je n'ai jamais senti. J'espŠre que j'en aurai une b‚n‚diction, qui ne se perd pas si vite. Mais j'en parlerai avec toi, lorsque nous serons de nouveau chez vous … Calicut. Notre voyage alla bien jusqu'ici, Dieu soit b‚ni.

Je me sens un peu fatigu‚e aujourd'hui, parceque je ne pouvais pas beaucoup dormir la nuit pass‚e. Nous avons visiter Me Muller … Cannanore, elle se porte bien et te fait bien saluer. Ses enfants sont aussi en bonne sant‚. 
M. et Me Irion te saluent aussi. J'ai du plaisir … porter un peu la petite Sarah, elle est si jolie et si aimable.

Comme Papa veut encore ‚crire … ma lettre je finis maintenant en saluant aussi M. Fritz et ses petites filles. Porte-toi bien et re‡ois un tendre baisers de ta fille bien affectionn‚e
 Marie Gundert.



3Heb. has been very kind to Mary and gave her a good deal of time. We lived in his house, slept in the place where the Diez's once were, and where now the Engl school fills most of the rooms. Visited Mrs M<üller>* in the afternoon had not to go to Mrs Lehm as she spent the day at Cheracal Did not go to Chir. but I heard that Nath has been so much surprized by Elieser's fall, that he confessed having sinned with Annie about one year ago. Such misery everywhere abroad truly we must sigh for a new life through all the congregations. Also at Mang (or Moolky) they had a sad story. Naomi had lived with Thomas, was with child. As he intended to marry another she took some medicine or poison, lost much blood and died. It made a great impression on the Mang. Congregation, as Heb improved the occurrence considerably. With Thomas the Assist. Collector he had but little: Th. acknowledges that he is not the Lord's. Heb has more confidence in Hauff than in Finkh. It seems that Kaund. is very desirous to have again the Cat. Institution. As for the bull I will write to Pfl to send it to Merc. at least for 1-2 months. If it is to be sold it can be done for truly it seems hardly worth while keeping it for the few cows we have.

We shall D.V. meet on Sunday morning. My impression of the Cann visit is very hopeful. It is really a pleasure to see that Heb. and Strobel are growing in Confidence as the aspects of things (chiefly the supplies for the year) become threatening. The Lord give them all they really want  Yours in the Lord HG

