Mrs Gundert, Calicut, outside Tappal, bearing

 Maienculam 15 May <58>*
 Saturd evening
My dear wife

Again a day of mercy over all well only 23 miles from Palghaut. - At Codacal much reading etc with Bossh. who is far in advance of Convert in Malayalam. The bearers came only 5 PM. had therefore only dry weather to the Kanga river, and then darkness and rain - the lantern had been sent before, as I had intended to go in the afternoon. The bearers set me down on the Changadu and would not proceed further, the ferry people helped them. They would put me up in the native bangalow where I had waited for them whilst they broke their fast. I conquered by obstinacy - poor people, they had a slow march over the wet road through those ricefields. At 1 in the morning only I reached Tirtalla where I had been expected somewhat anxiously. Still some hours of sleep and then new battle with the bearers who would not proceed farther, but celebrate the newmoon feast. Only 6 could be got together who from 8 to 2 brought me to Vanienc. Strobel had been 1 1/2 hours before me, learning even to gallop, but his skin pays for it. Rama soon followed and made excellent dinner. Paul with the bandy may already have reached Codacal - happily I have bread for Strobel and can also lend him a shirt or so. The bowels again perfectly quiet during the 2 stages - no use of syringe - the medecine doses as usual and a good deal of wine expended. The last piece of mutton - if Bossh. has not kept his share a little longer - was eaten after I arrived at Tirtalla. Here is ________, quite a din of confused noises of men and beasts comes up from the valley at our feet. Happily also new bearers were found for tomorrow, thus enabling me to send off the old set. So you see how swimmingly we get on. It is indeed a mercy I could walk about 1/2 mile with some enjoyment, and the weather - occasional wind and rain - rather invigorates me. If all goes well I may reach Palgh tomorrow evening. We would proceed in carts if nothing else offered, still I prefer the Manjil and bearers are found. Strob. greets with me every one by name. I hope soon to hear from you: that you are very composed and hope the best, and that Marie also helps you in your work and solitude. In a few days I shall write to the children therefore send what you have. The Lord be with you all
 Yours HGdt

