 24 June <58>*

My dear wife

Yesterday came Dobbie and returned in the evening. He relates a good deal of the 39th, loves Kerr particularly but Mrs Hodson annoyed him much. His wife seems to be pressing on, he is fond of his baby. Harkness didn't come with him, as they found no 2d pony - Strobel pleased with Ward and Cornish, less with Addis into whose house he now goes. Rehling prays with Obrien, but new lies come to the light which he told his superior. - Your objections to the liturgy are very natural but are you sure that extemp prayer would quicken the people and cause a revival? Life engenders life no doubt, so for life we are to pray and to seek but not for any particular forms. - I have leave to the 31 Aug. - What is Gabriel? "the man (or hero) of God" - Mrs Hoch's sister Lydia died in the faith after having had a clouded mind for several months Tom Stanes very childlike and nice, also his brother I like, but not Mme. Moer quite well and cheered with his prospects here. - At Mang Miss Will does of course all the work. Mrs Hauff keeps rather aloof the language appears hard to them

Pfleid is to marry a Miss Werner (Plebsts cousine) I am sorry for Haller's marriage but he would have it so, Pauline never saw a lover more decided than H. - We shall probably have here a Wednesday meeting. Mrs Francis asked for it, as she would hear <Dr. Gundert>1, but must on Sundays go to the Church at <Coonoor>1. I hear good reports of her. Also Dobb. is fond of her husbd and thinks him truly nice, Ward is louder yet in his praise. Now farewell

 Your HG
1Dr. Gundert, care Revd Mr. Hoch, Coonoor, favd by G Thomas Esq 
 Monday 21st
My dear Dr Gundert

I am very glad to hear of your safe arrival at Coonoor.

Captain Harkness proposes to accompany me on Wednesday morning early to visit you. We will remain the day and return in the evening. 
Will it be convenient to yourself and Mr Hoch.

 Your's affectionately
 R.S. Dobbie
