<To await his arrival, The Revd Dr Gundert, Traveller's Bungalow, Coimbatore ->1
<No 2 Not come yet>2

 Coonoor 2 July 58
My dear wife

Yesterday your letter came with the news of the Hodges being at Bepoor. You will ask her what there is about another match of Jessie's, broken off it would appear by those rumors flying about Madras. - Did I tell you of Chinnappen and Martha. They have a fine house here, and she looks better than in former years, I mean more happy and contented. But from what reason I do not know. She has no child now. He suffers from fever. So does Joshua her brother who lives with them. The latter not yet married - appears quite ignorant and careless. On the whole I felt that with all their prosperity they were not more hearty, only Martha seemed to warm with old recollections. - Sauvain mentioned to C. Müller that Strobel had sent a circular to the Malabar stations in which he objects strongly to Hebich etc. I cannot believe this, but fear Fritz may have communicated any of Str's letters to me, though I remember none that could have pained Heb. had he seen it. But please ask Fritz in private, what can be the cause of this report. If Heb. hears of it, it will grieve him, as Str. still addresses him: dear father etc. But I fear Sauv. liked to hear anything that sounded opposed to Hebich. - Tell Fritz that Strobel is to get the Miss[ionar]y papers, Heidenbote etc from Kaity, as the shorter way. So they need not be sent to him from Calicut. - I saw Mrs Hayne, widow of the Major a very fine lady and her daughter converted too. - Scudder gives Chinnapp a very bad name (adultery only 6 months ago) and pities Martha as not opening her mouth as long as he is present. The Congregation Catechists etc in a poor way! Satyanaden employed as schoolmaster. I have now had an invitation to preach Tamil but will probably hear the Bishop next Sunday. - In my Wednesday meeting I have commenced the Galatians

Now farewell
 Your HG.

