Dr. H. Gundert, Coimbatoor.

 Calicut 3d <June 58>*
Dear Papa.

Yours of the 31 came on the 2d even[ing] many thanks for it. Well if you like since you are better we shall write only every two days. like yourself I have no objection to it. Mrs Hayes spent a part of the day here; he did not come, he is very nervous and exitable she wept and said she had much to suffr fom his nerves being so iritable; but she is the same creature. Convert said (who saw but little of her only) she kills me, if I was a whole day with her I would be killed. Tuesday morning came in Diez to his disapointement found that Fritz had left for Kodacal - he wanted to speak with him about a piece of ground near his station which was for sale He looks nice I liked him better than before he had a quietness uncommon to him, he likes Anheart very much: They think of putting Hanna her sister with Mrs. Moegling!

Now you speak of going to the Hills so soon of course I do not know what is best for you but I hope you will not move till you are truly free not only from diarrhea; but till your stomach is quite in order. You remember that Mrs Hoch suffered for a long season on the Hills and is still suffering. I almost repent to have asked at Telli and Cannanore to send you pome Granate. If you run away so quick give charge to some one about them! The cooly who left this 7 days ago and who had promised to be at Palghaut on Friday had not yet arrived it appears - when you wrote on monday. 
I do not think that Herman's letters are as nice as they used to be; as for Samuel they truly refresh me. I hope that both will be received in the Mission Institution!

Mr Frere paid a visit today a showed much interest to the mission he saw the different branches of industrey and the Chapel came to school too. I am glad to hear about Mr Ward. It is difficult and also not right to speak or judge of the people without having tried them. I hope you had a good time with the Dr! Now I must leave room to Marie and say Adieu. But regards to the Hodges.
 Yours J. Gundert

Josephs wife Francis died after her confinement of _______ four girls are to go to Cherical



1My dear father!

You can imagine how glad I was to read in your letter that you were better than before! With God's Grace we hope the stay on the Hills will do you good and performe a perfect recovery for some time at least. 
Mrs Diez sends much love to you in her last short note. She and Sam. are well again Mrs. Haies showed me how people can deceive themself so awfully. Mama said to her, in answer of her regretting and relating their losses of money, yes if we only have that treasure above, that cannot be lost so soon she answered: Mais, mon Dieu, si je ne l'avais pas que deviendrais-je! - I thought she had better say: If I had it what would I become so happy instead of so many troubles, she has now. May the Lord help me, that I too do not deceive my soul so horribly and awake once after death only to see the real state and what waiteth for me!

Give my love to H. Hodges, I do not know whether she remembers me still. Now farewell with a good kiss
 your affect child
 Marie G.

