<The Revd. Dr. H. Gundert, Coonoor.>1

 Coonoor 17 Aug <58>*
My dear wife

At last some news about which you must be careful. I have heard from Josenh. today that my Cochin letter was somewhat unexpected by the Comm. but they will gladly receive me again and wish me to devote my time to the work of translating the Bible and to the Secretary work which they say was last year performed very unsatisfactorily. It is my fear that this would quite retard Hoch's recovering, which prevents me from showing him the letter. Also the other news must therefore be kept from him. About station they will say nothing till I am well again. Would like me to be at Mang near Treasurer, but have hardly houses there if Pfl Kaund etc marry, and Malab might be better for my translating business, whilst you could hardly be replaced in the Cal. girlschool. This was before the feast. - Now they have heard that Arb. will not send me off, they will therefore wait for further news like me for Secryship, but will also be glad if I remain Inspector with a reasonable prospect of doing something effective.

"On the 8th of July we have received your 2 sons into the Voranstalt. The little boys go to St. Paul much weakened by his wound but mercifully preserved. I wonder how it will fare with Herm. He will contrast strongly with Mr. Kolb. But the Lord can make it take a favorable turn." - Mgl has cut himself off by his letter from Triest, and says now his letter was misunderstood But even Barth etc testify that this is not the way of writing to a Committee. Mgl throws the fault on Josenhans who after all questions whether Mgl is quite straight forward. He (Jos.) asked the Comm. to receive Mgl, but certainly with less urgency than formerly because he found it so difficult to deal with him. He will be glad if M fares better with the English. Then love to you Marie etc

You see from this extract (nearly literal) that God has heard us for the boys. We shall have to pray for Herm. whom I have warned strongly to deny himself and run for a crown, instead of amusing himself with trifles. 
Write in your answer that you have now heard of our boys being received at Basle and what you think about it. Show this to Fritz but not farther. 
