 23 Aug <58>*

My dear Marie

I am glad you see the danger of imbibing another Spirit by promiscuous reading. Herm. will now come into quite a new field where he may find it difficult to be so much more watched and controlled in all his movements than was the case at Stuttg. Mr Kolb of the Voranstalt being a strong Michelian he will have much to think about Herm's free ways. I am so glad he has Samuel with him, who surely will have grace given him to warn gently - and the big brother will not I hope shake it off. - As for Mrs Whiteh. I saw her indeed but neither to her nor to Miss VanSomeren can I any more convey your messages, as I have done with Ooty in my calculations. On Wednesday once more to Kaity that is all I have in my mind. - Tell Mr Fritz I thank him for his letter and hope to answer yet, but am not sure as I wish to finish Ecclesiastes. I am hard at work copying what I have written and may God accept the poor work done in these 2 months. We hope to be at Palgh on the morning of 1 Sept. The newspaper will henceforth come again to Calicut. I hope you will write once to Palghaut say on the 31 Aug. Homeletters I shall probably send off from Calicut on the 7th but you had better enquire if that will be still in time. Otherwise I must finish them on the road and send off from Ponany. Farewell
 Your HG
 Papa

Hoch's intend going by Calicut (in Oct) seeing all the stations on their way. Tell this Mr Fr. with my Selam and that I am well indeed. 


1My dear Brother,

I send you herewith Rs 150. Please keep the bag - as I have got plenty of them.
 Yours Affectio...
 J. Arbuthnot*

