 Palgh 22 May 58
My dear wife

Yesterday Paul was again deaddrunk in the morning and Str eats of course again with me, which is rather hard for Ram as he must cook separately for each. For I found that canji's must again be preferred to meat; and having since Cal. had no injection and being continually heated by the astringent medecine, I felt I must again begin with a good enema of luke warm water, followed by the Turpentine application and low diet, which has done me good. I have no more walked about since the first day of Palgh and therefore see nothing of Strobel's things and his new arrangement in a room of the Chapel - to be separated from the rest when carpenters can be had. He has bought some furniture but at fearfully high prices (a bed at 35-) ask Laufer what he asks for such things Almira, chairs, bedsteads couch, and let Fritz write to Strobel a word about it that he may make arrangements for things to come after the Monsoon. - The engineers* have received Str rather well also the Commandg officer. - He will send a circular about and announce Engl worship - another to invite subscriptions for the Engl school. - Cat Paul has not yet come, which annoys me on account of those 2 books. He is probably tender to himself on account of the rain No Capt Francis as yet, his coach waits for him here sent by Madame from Jackatallah to take him to the foot of the hills, 3 Coolies are to drag it up, so said the drunken Tamil Coach man who made friedship with me. Now farewell - once more I hope to write tomorrow, perhaps also on Monday if the bearers won't start early.
 Yours HG.

A kiss to Mimy

