 Calicut 27th June 1858

Dear Papa.

You will not be displeased at my having sent your letters to Pauline as she is so glad to get some news. For how many month have you leave? When people ask me I know not what to say, no one here knows it; <this was writen before your letter came>1 On Friday afternoon came yours of the 21. for which accept thanks. I am glad to hear Mrs. Francis asks for meeting; I do hope our dear Carr has been brought fully to the Lord. When you write give him my love and earnest desire and prayer that he may in all things though Christ s power in him be a new creature. I believe it will come to pass in him to the Glory of God Yours of the 24th came for which thanks I am glad to hear of Cap Dobbie. What about the John Groves and Miss J. but the Hodges will know of course! I had heard all about Mrs Hoch's sister by a letter of Mrs H. which you have seen too Poor Haller how intengled in the trap he seems to be! Vedamootu has returned yesterday after an absance of 10 weeks, Christian from Kodacal is here for some days he seems to be a fine Christian man, some what cast down at God's judgements as he says having taken away his first fine wife and children. As I was speaking to the big Lydia about her soul she said that she had <been>* blessed by the morning prayer Friday it was the prayer book! she is nice that girl and loves the Lord I think. Love to all
 Yours J. Gundert



2My very dear papa

The night from Friday to Saturday I dreamd that I sat near Hermann, he was just as he is and said to me: You are my sister! The whole day I was rejoiced over my dream, for I know that I am now his sister because we have both one brother who became for him and for me our brother. How wonderful such a love and how little do I think of it! It seems to me All new what I read and I am happy, when I pray, it seems to me, that He is now so much much nearer, so that I can freely speak to Him. I cannot tell you how that makes me happy in my soul and how I can be so quiet over what has passed, for I know that it is passed and washed through my Saviour's precious blood. I wish to look at Him always with more love and confidence. Oh! I never would have believed that it is such a joy to talk to Him and that He can make a heart so ful so easy and so happy. How much have I to thank and to praise Him! He is so good! So we may be glad! - A kiss from  Your child

