<Revd. Dr. Gundert, Coonoor, Neilgherries. Stamped>1

 Coonoor 16 Aug <58.>*
My dear Marie

This morning came the Stuttg letters. You will read them to Mama. I have already begun to answer them, that is with short notes, so that nothing is forgotten. And here I could not help to give a pretty strong answer to Herm. who is not simple enough, I fear from the common sickness that selfdenial is not heartily practised. I wonder how you will translate Lebensschwingungen und Nebenanschauungen to M. It is mere Larifari, covering a certain coolness that has taken possession of him, and he is therefore truly as he subscribes himself angegriffen (I mean by the enemy). So I hope you will also heartily pray for him that he run for his life, to be saved one eyed one handed and one footed rather, than try to connect the wisdom of the world with the simplicity of the Gospel. - The Whitehouses have yesterday left for Ooty (on our ponies) On Sunday he came to Scudder, for he feared coming to close with us. Then he heard from a Circular that the Chaplain could not preach from indisposition. He would go to the meeting he then said, if only it was not of Plymouth brethren: for he feared I was a Plymouth brother. Sc. laughed and assured him I was not, in consequence they both came - probably for the first time - to a meeting of dissenters. Mrs Wh. rather puzzled had at first taken my chair before the table - when we rose after the blessing, she wondered and asked: is it already over? I believe mere nervousness But she is a good woman and I am glad we could help them a little - In a fortnight I hope to descend
 Your P.

