 Coonoor 24 July <58>*
My dear wife

21st Hoch went to Ooty, and had there to settle some quarrel between the 2 Dobbies. Robert's second one is not nice - I believe her to be wellmeaning, but sulky and little inclined to yield to others. 22d he rode back with Frank Groves but did not find me as I had accompanied Metz to Cotergherry. We spent about 6 hours with the Cockburns (what with dinner, tea etc) and they were nice and kind. But still I don't envy their apparently so easy life. It looks as if they spent it all for their own exclusive benefit. Frank is now really a man and his plantation answers. Also Davy is now rather a tiny youth, shooting building planting and getting into the way of working for himself. Mme hardly older than she was 7 years ago. He very white and a little bending, but rather well looking and fresh in the face. The Chapl Taylor had once come for 10 days to Kotergh with a large party: intending to preach on 2 Sundays. But on the first he could not, having drunk too much Brandy pawnee as his servt told the butler of C. and when he paid his visit to C. they would not admit him, and consequently he preferred going back to Coonoor before the 2d Sunday came round. C's told it the Bishop, who said it was no news to him, but get some Europeans to prove the fact of intoxication! He (Taylor) will go home by the end of the year. 
Returned Friday noon and found Hoch. Soon afterwards Frank came and related. Henry still at home, glad if he could get a place somewhere for preaching. Edward busy in his calling fond of the natives, speaks the language well. Norris inclines towards the Church of Engld to the grief of Mama. <Dr. H. Gundert>1 has returned quite well from his tour, the <Dy. Insptr. of Schools>1 has very little work, and enjoys his ease at <Coonoor>1, writing daily some letters and now and then correcting a Mal proofsheet from Madras.

Now farewell
 Your HG

