 Coimb. 30 May <58>*

My dear wife

It seems you have resolved henceforth to write only every other day. If you had said so I should not have waited in vain for the post. Now being in such a fair way of recovering my health I am not disinclined to follow your example and hope you will not consider me prostrate but rather occupied with something more useful or at least more dignified, should the post pass without a letter from me.

I did not go to the service today, though I should have liked it. Perhaps next Sunday I may go twice and hear both Papa A. and his son. English service there is none. Today I ask my Dr if he considered himself converted. He hoped so and showed very friendly acquaintance with Dr's Tom White and McFarlane at Secunderabad. He joined in their prayer meetings. A. does not consider him as converted only well inclined, but A. may have done too little to meet him halfway. Even about Boswell A. seems not quite satisfied. He has certainly enough Tamil work to excuse himself from English but I still think he might have profitably ministered to the English once a week at least. - Str. writes that Fenn arrived, but not if he induced him to preach to the English or spend at least the Sunday there. 
I see you sent me the enveloppe that came from Alattoor. It left Palgh 25th and reached Cal. 27th, must have lain 19 or 18 days at Alattoor or Palghaut!

Hoch writes how the prince of Schönburg rebukes Basle for the Tell. Institution. It is a hard nut for the dear Committee. The prince will now go over to the Leipzikers.

 Now farewell
 Your HG

