Dr H. Gundert, Care of Dr. Leslie, Cochin.

 Calicut 28th March 1858

Dear papa

Your welcome letter came just in hand for which many thanks. Truly I did not expect to hear so soon, for I had heard that a letter was three days in the way from Cochin; that has kept me from writing Saturday and even today: for now I am too late for this daypost: I hope you have seen Dr Leslies and that you are taking remedies; may God bless them and soon restore you to health: Dear Plebst who came Saturday with Keiler was much disapointed not to find you and much grieved to hear of your sickness. He will leave this on tuesday with Mr Leclar for the Hills through Paulghoat. Where Keiler goes I dont know. Ebenezer with Cap Dobbi s son came too.

Saturday morning Fritz returned with Lechler and Hanhart. the last a fine looking youth, honest serious Mr. L. did not like much our services on Sunday, he is to have our evening meeting. he had already some reading and explaining yesterday evening I liked it.

Richter will come to morrow to finish your work! Today came a letter from Hoch Fritz read it most part is but excuses for his silence and offering you some of his boys for schoolmasters, Keiler says that there is vacation till the 5 of May. Hoch much excited by the Comity's letter about Moegling, on the whole his health not better, he cannot bear any trouble. Plebst believe that he will soon go home. I had a nice letter from Mrs Deggeler. Mrs Hauff has taken charge of the school instead of Deg Plebst says that Deg helps in the printing in his stead. Dr Brett desires much to go way if not home on the Hills at least, if no leave granted he will take it! 
Thomas was at the meeting rather long I got so tired and nervous that I would have done right to go to bed.

Richter is to leave on Saterday after the marrige Keuler goes to Kodakal. I am anxious to hear about you

 Yours aff J. Gundert


1Gutenmorgen mein theurer Vater!

Gerade bin ich aufgestanden von einem gesunden Schlafe und lieblichem Traum von Dir Du warst auf dem Sopha und ich neben Dir und Du redetest so väterlich so herzlich mit mir und warst so lieb und ich so fröhlich und wohl. Beinahe wollte es mir wehe thun, als ich dann merkte, es war nur ein schöner angenehmer Traum! Doch hoffe ich, wird dieser sich bald verwirklichen, wenn Du zu uns zurückkehrst, worauf ich mich recht herzlich freue. Unser Tisch ist mit einem Male recht lang geworden, wenn Du ihn nur auch noch beleben könntest, Du guter Papa! Nun der Herr möge Dich segnen und Dir Deine Gesundheit und neue Kräfte verleihen daß Du heiter und stark zu uns kommst, daß wir zusammen Ihn preisen!

Doch Sein Wille geschehe. Er weiß ein Jedes Seiner Kinder zu leiten und zu tragen. Er segne Dich und uns mit Seinem Frieden, der höher ist denn alle Vernunft.
 In Liebe Dein Kind Marie


