Dr H. Gundert, Coimbatoor

 Calicut 7-8 June 1858
Dear Papa

In the 3d of Act 13 and last verses your Malayalim translation has servant __________ instead of son is it so in the original? English and french have son.

Many thanks for two letters, 4th and 5th I am sorry to hear about dear Strobel! I trust his bride will soon come to care for him; may he also learn what is Gods will by this sickness and get a real blessing. Mr and Mrs. Robinson with children paid a visit yesterday. Mr Grant was here too. Mrs. was very nice I had a good conversation with her while the others were walking. She has certainly more than she shows and is not without speaking of the truth to come: you will have seen them already when you receive this at least Mr. R and Miss Phil. I am glad to hear you stay longer at Coim For how long have you leave?

About writing every day I do not promise. if there is just any "Matiere" for it I have no objection; but if nothing and you be well I will do as usual every two days

I shall be glad to see the Hodges when are they likely to come? Mrs R seems to like or to find more piety in Mrs. Cook than in Mrs. Halloway In the next witten papers you shall see Mrs. Hayes's Epistle, What a poor creature! still the same!

You say nothing of your health are we to conclude that you are well; that_s to say that the complaint is quite subdued; that the stools are right of a propre coulour and nature, and not too frequant?

What do you hear of the Hoch s? I have not heard for a very long time! 
Mrs Bean is complaining of the same sickness as you had; but not in such a degree. She does not like to ask the Dr about it and waits hoping it will come better.

Now dear papa with love to all there and love from all here to you  am yours J. Gundert

P.S The Home news have been sent here direct Via Marseilles the hand writing we do not know. Mr Fritz thinks that you have them there therefore I do not send it

Mr Th has just come to buy for the school

1__________________ he has been ordered to have Malayalim books read, I asked him whether he knew at school who is to act for you. he said no but he would have no objection to travel about visiting the schools as one is well paid; but during the rain he would not undertake it it is too bad to travel by the rain

Mrs Irion wrote that she could not get Pome Granate, and that Mrs Beuttler_s baby has died



2My very dear papa.

Thank you for the kind little note you wrote to me last time, thank you also for my mistakes! - You will find in every letter some, I fear, though I take care. - Now this morning I wanted to ask you what that means when our dear Lord Jesus in one chapter of Luce is saying: Those who are not against me, are for me and not long afterward I read: And those who gather not with me, scatter. - Will you, when you have time, kindly explain me how these two sayings do accord together, I do not well find it. I thought it was now the time to read those letters of the Apostles thinking I knew the Evangelists already, but when I read again a little in them, I find so many things, I never remarked; also it is a delight to read, how Jesus had so often compassion as it stands always: and when He saw them he was moved with compassion, and how he was always ready to say: I will! when they came to ask him to be healed of their sicknesses. So we may know that He is always willing if we are. - We wish and pray that He may also make you well again, dear papa, if it is His own holy Will, and if He sees it to be the best for us. But before all I wish to be myself healed from that sickness that is in the heart, of that devil's seed and I believe in His word, that sayeth: And what you ask in faith ye shall receive. - There came a letter from Mrs Schmid they go on well. Mrs Bean's kind regards and a kiss of your own child.

