 <20 Juni 58>*

My dear wife

Yesterday (19) rode to Kaety and back in the evening. This is a good day's work, isn't it. - Write upon Mercuries "by bookpost" so also upon Mspts. The Hochs are displeased with Heb's transactions in the Mang girl school, where quite young girls were given in marriage etc Amm. writes Mang is like sheep without shepherd. I believe it half. Old girls out of the school already were by Heb put back into it. I advised Hoch to send them back to the parents. But the fact here is Mrs. H. does not know if she can go back to her house, the Hauff's complaining that it is too narrow for 2 families! Miss Will gave for 30 dozen thread 30 Rs to Pfl. But I do not know if these are Calicut stories, as I gave to Pfl already in Dec some store of thread. - I wish the bull was sold and gave us no farther expense! Nothing from Carr since March

Love to dear Marie etc
 Your HG



 1Coonoor 19th June 1858.

My very dear sister Gundert,

I have not answered your dear letter, which I had some time ago, until now, and I think the more that it is time to do it now for two reasons sake. First, as your dear husband is with us now, and secondly as dear Marie is a new creature now. Your dear husband looks thin, but he seems to be well, and quite pleased with Coonoor. He rode over to Kaity this morning and will come back in the evening. -

With regard to dear Marie I rejoice with you, rejoice with great joy, that the Lord has heard your prayers and given you not only your daughter, according to the body, but that He also through His infinite grace and mercy has been pleased to give you your daughter spiritually and that she has been made a new creature through His own Spirit.

Our children are pretty well. Paul and Mark are quite well. Theophilus has Diarreoa again. Mariely looks rather poorly from teething, but she is better, than she was some time ago. My husband is much better, than he was a month ago. I am not free from Diarrheoa, I am obliged to take medecine continually, but I am very much better.


Liebe Marie,

Da Dein lieber Vater bei uns ist, so denke ich sehr oft an Dich, und muß Dir daher auch ein paar Worte schreiben. Es freut mich von ganzem Herzen daß Du, durch des lieben Heilandes Gnade nun auch ein Kind der Gnade geworden bist. Es ist Etwas Großes und sehr Wunderbares, daß wir arme sündige Menschen Kinder Gottes werden dürfen und sollen. Ich wünsche von Herzen, meine liebe Marie, Du mögest nun auch in Ihm wachsen, d.h. 1. Dich selbst in Deiner Armuth und Sünde immer besser kennen lernen, recht arme Sünderin werden, und 2t. immer tiefere Blicke in Deines Heilandes Gnade, Liebe, Barmherzigkeit und Treue thun dürfen und vollen Frieden und Freude in Ihm haben. Ich freue mich, Dich, so der Herr will, im Herbst begrüßen zu dürfen.

In alter treuer Liebe
 Deine Pauline Hoch.

