Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coonoor 18 June 58
My dear Marie

I was glad yesterday to receive the letter of the 3 Kinderhaus fellows. Dav. signs himself our brother that is not yours, but mine and Mama's. Or were you particularly present to his mental eye when he wrote thus? We ought to bear them much in mind: that indeed they soon may become brothers or brethren.

How true it is that only by our love shall men know that we are Christians! Here there are good Christians that have last year had a fearful quarrel that spread all over the hills and for months occupied many minds - and still the fire is smouldering under the ashes! Some have evidently profited by it, others little or not at all. I tell them what the world says of them, but I don't know if they are very much ashamed of themselves. If they are not, we ought to be in their stead. For in this the murderer from begining is seen so very clearly that all other mistakes of believers are as nothing in comparison to this. I say this because you complain of the wicked one still riding you now and then. Oh let us look always to the meek and lowly one who has gained all his victories by love unshaken. - Mrs Hoch is now pretty well, takes great interest in you; she has had much sickness with her children the baby looks quite puny. Elisa is here, not at Mangalore - she looks after the little Mary. Mrs Hoch had gone to a picnic on Wednesday, from which she returned quite disgusted - it was all a stupid arrangement of half worldly people. - Did you apropos see anything of Mrs Stevens returning in May to Cannanore. Her husbd writes to Tom Stanes that the disease is going on and she is wasting away visibly. I met her riding into the arms of the Monsoon near Palghaut! Now farewell
 Your Papa

