 Cochin 9 Dec 1858

My dear wife

I was hardly embarked before I felt better than I had been for the last days at Cal. and the improvement has continued steadily. In the evening Taylor and I prayed together, Lewis would not join in it but gave us rather a rough rebuff in order to hold us at a distance. 8th morning near Chowghaut, talked with Lewis who shifted his ground repeatedly - he does not like to say I won't and therefore tries different excuses. About 5 o'clock before Cochin, anchored after sunset in river and slept there 9th morning landed, met Lawson - saw Leslie, who is packing and not well, his wife even laid up - went on to Whitehouse where Rama had already put up. They seem really better for their trip. Talk of Beuttler's difficulties at Trichoor. Mrs Harley builds a house there! he also is to come down again, she says. Visited School, but only during the morning hours, slept afternoon, as deliciously as about the middle of Sept when I had that feeling of tiredness. My guests very kind.

Now about the time. Taylor is of course never quite sure how many days he requires for his work, but it is quite possible that we leave this only Monday evening (13) - then we may be at Quilon early on the 15th. Here T. proposes to be 3 days, which gives me time to return from Anjengo perhaps even with a look at Trevandram (Cox Sperschneider). Any how you write a letter on receipt of this to Quilon, care of J. d'Albedhyll Esqr Master Attendant. The next letter, say 2 days after you write to Allepie - "to await his arrival" - and then again to Cochin. Taylor thinks it possible that we may not be back till the 28th. As the sea agrees so much with me, I will not be foolish, to hurry back upon my large bed, but will try to get really well with little exertion.

Let all things be brought to you open any letter or cover and show to Fritz. Make up a parcel of written papers "by bookpost" to Allepie or at all events to Cochin. Answer the urgent little questions that may come from brethren. Keep the money papers. I am in no hurry for other business, so let many things rest till I come back. Farewell with love to Marie and all  your HG

