+ Dr Gundert an Arbuthnot. ____(Archiv)

 c 10-12 Mai 1858

Your kind letter of the 8th inst. has reached me just before my departure from Calicut. I have given my best consideration to its contents and will shortly state that I am resolved to follow your advice to this extent that before I take any further step I wait for the orders of the Court in answer to your late representations.

When I wrote to you my wish to resign I had chiefly in view the character of my disease being rather tiresome and insidious than violent, and the probable consequences: first my removal from the Coast during the Monsoon months and then the prospect of a return to Europe for the purpose of avoiding the hot and wet seasons of another year. Under such circumstances I supposed my resignation could hardly embarass you, as you might prefer making some final arrangements to the temporary shifts that my repeated absence would necessitate. At the same time I confess, I was influenced by a desire of giving way to the declared will of the Court of Directors of which I had been informed by friends, rather than remain in a doubtful position, for the chance of which I had not made up my mind, when I first accepted the appointment. I shall thank you to let me know the decision of the Home Authorities whenever it arrives and I hope by that time to see clearly my further way.

For the present I can hardly help absenting myself from the District and hope you will grant me the leave applied for. I have thought what I might propose concerning the appointment of a substitute; but have not hit upon anyone whom I could recommend. Should you see no other way I might offer to continue doing from a distance that part of my work which can be performed by writing, whilst I might easily induce trust worthy friends in Canara and Malabar to visit each of the Taluk Schools and state how they found them. I have already slightly availed myself of such assistence. But you alone can judge, how far such an arrangement would meet the demands of the work and whether the rules of Govt. admit of this temporary employ of irresponsible Agents. The modifications of the Book accts. which you announce is indeed a boon. My health broke down whilst I sat over them, and only during the last week have I found myself strong enough to take them up again. 
When I considered how that part of the Educational plan in which I placed most confidence and which I strongly endeavoured to advance within my sphere of action, had come to lie dormant - I mean the grant in aid system, whilst there are indications that some of the present Home Authorities object even to the slightest extension given to it in this Country - and when I compared with the minute degree of influence I may exercise upon the minds in the Schools under my control, the great amount of time spent upon accounts and returns, I certainly was led to ask myself if I had not made a mistake in changing my occupations and became open to strong misgivings regarding my path of duty. What ever measure therefore relieves me of work, which so many others can perform much better than myself, will be hailed by me with true gratitude.
 etc.
 H Gdt.

