 Mang 6 Jan 58

My dear wife

Yesterday evening we had the Fitzgibbon's at the meeting of Tuesday and today they came for a Miss[ionar]y prayermeeting to the Miss Chapel. We had this instead of Monday because I was to go off to Carcal. This afternoon I will go D.V. to Casergode, that is reach it only tomorrow morning. There will be a good deal of trouble with these Can[ares]e schools, as everything is new and hardly any books in Can[are]se. The bull has just arrived, at least the Pattimar with Otto in it (from Mang to Cann and) now returning in advance of Heb. who is to leave next week only for Mang. I think you better send to the post after arrival of this and say no more to send to me anything as I must return to Cal. next week. I trust the people come before or on Sunday, when I shall try to go off on Monday. Kaund. has written home for a European wife, and hopes the Comm. will not treat him very differently from European brethren. Hauser was in here last week and sends you Selam. He has now got the boyschool which returned from Mang to Mulky and Daniel the Catechist (formerly at Balmatha) and now gone likewise to look after them. His wife sent you Selam So did many women. They indeed appeared anxious to hear about you.

Richter has probably gone. If not but thanks for his letter. I will try and send an answer to Merc. Mögl. threatens now soon to go over to the Bishop when he visits Merc in Febry. But the Lord may still prevent it. I wonder that he has not been taken beforehand and see also God's hand in these 5 years' of preliminaries and transactions. Tomorrow is again a mailday - I should write if I was here, but you send me nothing and my time is taken up with schoolwork

Now farewell
 Your HG

