Dr. H. Gundert, Coimbattoor

 <24 Mai 58>*
Dear Papa

24th evening no letter to day from you. I would not feel it so much if the last had not brought worse news than before. I must wait quietly till to morrow and hope for the better!

Mrs. Cook I have not yet seen; but Mr Fritz says that we must pay a visite there to morrow! Mr William came to day; but I have not seen him. Marie took rather well what I had to tell her. Mrs Irion wrote a nice letter asking anxiously after your health. I sahll send it when there are some more things! She wished too for a real pentecost. I should think she is growing in the Lord. I have written to Missy and asked whether any news about a work in Major Hodson and Gompertz. Many pattimars have been lost between Can. and Tellicherry, here too, the other day people who had imbarked coffee paid 50 Rs for a boat to bring them rice on board that Madras ship is still here and ready to be put in pieces. Poor sea fearing people have been more surprised even than last year. The rice 3 1/2 Rs the mound already, I am reading Mrs Winslow and this evening as I was going to feel distressed about you it did me good to look and hear how the Lord helped her. 
25 I had a very painful feeling in awakening. I had just dreamed that I was in a carriage and some one asked me why do you not go in your own bandy I answred as if just heard at the moment Do you not know that my husband has died in ours he had just written to Maj Young that he was going to a prayer meeting with him and died in the way so I began to weep aloud and awoke! 
11 Aclock yours of the 23d just came thank God you have been spared so far; You say nothing of your health; but that you keep the couch! tell me more please. Salams to Rama I am glad he is now fully with you. Adieu dear papa the devil has cheated me with fears; but it is also good it drives me to my Saviour! All the news here you got before

 Yours affect
 J Gundert

