 Mang 7 Nov 58

Lieber Fr.

Ich hoffe Dein Fuß ist wieder wohl, und Dein Herz thut Dir nicht weh, halte nur Dich selbst für ein armes Schäflein und geh zum treuen Hirten. Bei dem gehts jedem gut. Gelt Come to Jesus!
 Dein Vater


1My sweet dear Frederic

We were glad to hear by your brothers that you three little ones are doing pretty well. I long to hear that you have a papa and mama caring for you, Marie has told me how the dear lady who is to be you mama has been kind to her at Kornthal once when she was distressed how she comforted her and helped her; this little insight of that dear lady has rejoiced me much specially for you precious child who want a kind loving mother who can bear with your poor weak nerves, love you even when you are some what out of tune and wearied with trifles, learning, and restlessness.

Dear Child we think often of you and commit you to the dear Lord Jesus who can do much better than we could, we know that He heares prayers and will do all right for you. I send a kiss to you three dear precious sons. 
Kind regards to the dear lady the Lord has given you for mother, I trust you will be obedient and love those dear people God has given you instead of us. You will soon be nearer your brothers which will be a comfort too 
Since I wrote you the first part I have received from yourselves a letter for which plenty thanks, so you had pain in a foot, sweet sonly <Sohnele>2. We are much with you in our minds. Give also my thanks to dear Miss Constantia for her kind note about you: it is very kind of her to have written I have no time just now to write to her but send her kind love. 
Give also my love to dear Hermann and Samuel to whom I do not write this time. I rejoice to know the Lord is with them and keep them

Kisses to you specially and to my precious Paul and David

