 Coonoor 17 Aug <58>*
My dear wife

Herewith the homeletters, except one from Reinh. which I keep for answering at leisure. I am very glad that Sam. is so sure of his way in all simplicity. Gompertz's also will please you. You best read the 2d part for yourself and do not communicate it. I send some white paper with this, wherein the latest Homenews for Fr. to look at, for your girls to write on. - Your answers I ought to get on Sunday. 22d - from Scudder's note you see that I had this time 2 services Tamil for him and Engl in the afternoon. It is rather much, and I observe that I found hardly any sleep after it: but the chest seems again equal to it. - We spoke to Hoch about the nervousness of his manner in preaching. Then it came to the light that he was not aware of it, nor had his wife ever told him. I laughed heartily and said you would have criticized me earlier and not for mere manner either. If a wife is not to do one this service who will. - Rama is quite well - the horsek glad of 1/2 Rup he got from Whitehouse

You will send the home letters to Mrs Mögling as I should have done if they had come this way. Is it not strange Wh. taking me for a Plymouth brother until Scudder undeceives him? and all this after I have favored you with a - liturgy?! But I see I am born to be misunderstood by all men - so good and nice a fellow and nobody will honor me for it!

How strange that Heb. is to wait for Committ. letters. I really think it his calling to go on pilgrimage in the manner he did!

Now Goodbye and grace be with you
 Your own
 <Dr. H. Gundert, Dy: Insptr. of Schools, Coonoor>1

