 8 Jan <58>*

My dear wife

Returned this morning tired from Casergode. Rather glad after all that Marie begins her Indian life with a disappointment. Many such are sure to follow and will educate her better under God's blessing than if we did reprove her ever so strongly. I shall - as far as I see now - not fish for her stories but merely try to make her believe in our love and - what is more - in God's thro' Christ Jesus - (Of coarse - of course is meant a sterick = hysterics.) You see Hauff has written at last to Pfl and Marie enclosed to <Rev. Hermann Gundert>1, this bit of Selam. It does not appear untrue to me, except that it shows she does not know her excitement. <Mangalur>1 is considerably less anxious about the party than it was, they have made us wait so long that we now care less about them. H. wrote rather stiffly to Pfl. My impression is that Marie keeps up an artificial excitement within herself and is always more or less intoxicated. I can imagine her already sighing under the daily routine of going to school with you, doing tasks for me etc. But the Lord will make her sober one day. What should we be if He had not done it. Let Fritz read to you the preceding. 
Bossh. wrote that Laufer wants a change. I should think so - chiefly inwardly.

Robinson writes often about Paulgh. I have copied it all for Josenhans. But I do not believe that the danger Mr Taylor threatens us with is so very near.

If possible I shall write to the Kinderhaus, with the Basle letter, so must close for today. There is plenty work before me. The Caserg Schools promises better than that of Carcal. - The Stangers I hear have been sent off beyond Bellary

Now farewell
 Your HG

