Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coonoor 17 July <58>*
My dear wife

To see Mr Pope I went to K but he did not make his appearance nor send a word. I found there my old waterproof coat with 2 rat holes through it, and gave it to the horsekeeper who walked very proudly back (in it) from K to Coonoor. I eat now anything, and the bowels are all right. Still K. is not so favorable for them as Coonoor. If I take long exercise I require more wine, otherwise I feel poorly for work. That is all the remains of the past sickness. - Your letter (from Marseilles returned now, after it had lain there 3-4 months) was chiefly that addressed to Mrs Huber. I have now sent it off the 2d time and added a word. - If the Hodges knew to get the house for 1000 why did they not advise me or Strobel of it. The purchase was effected long after they had lived a week in it. They ought to know that we are thankful for any assistance of the kind. - J. Groves was the whole week here without seeing me. Mrs came only yesterday and I visited her. J G looks like an old monkey - I mean the face so dark and all white round with hair and beard - he was nice however. His daughter I have not seen. Mrs Hoch who went after us thought her very oldish in appearance. Plebst is now here for some days. So we shall have a good gathering tomorrow, if it please the Lord. Mr Mglg arrived at Triest, from whence he wrote 10 July and hoped to be at Tubingen on the 15th. Mrs Mgl. writes to Mrs Hoch as if she was suffering from a deeper complaint than she had been aware of and is now consulting the Dr. I hope you have happy seasons and rejoice in the Lord who does all things well for us. "May we merit these blessings" said poor Brigr Justice! May we at least thank for them says I.

