Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Palghat 1 Sept <58>*
My dear wife

Monday early Robinson saw us before he went down the Ghaut. Miss Ph. is considerably better and hope for her restoration. Saw Scudder who gave me 15 Rs for your girl school. As I spend them you have to pay them to Mr Fritz, as a gift to girl school from Mrs J. Scudder. Paid there yet a (nice) visit. After dinner with Hoch and Moer. to Stanes, where Boswell joined us, and after a shower passed off we went down, met Tom Stanes halfway where Mr Thomas has his garden. The 3 returned from there together, Tom St very tender. I on with Bosw. who confesses himself converted through Alcock (at Madras). Found Rama very poorly from the walk down with Asthma, he followed me in the Saman bandy, but could not as yet get up to do any thing. I pity him indeed, the horsekeeper does his part manfully. Arrived yesterday morning at the Addis' and saw Dr Cornish and Mr Ward with whom Rob. stays. Mrs Ward is to come out again I gave him for her 2 Esep Salem's1 (in Engl and Germ) Mrs Weigle had taught her German. During this night by bandy to Palgh. Here Monsoonish, it was wanted very much. The hills had been quite dry most unusually. Strobel cheerful also Paul and Rehling to my liking. I had a view of the Engl School and hope I may be able to get a grant for it - when, that is another question. Tomorrow early by Manjil to Alattoor and back in the evening. I wonder what will become of the Sauvain's. But if they go to America it seems the best for them. Obr. had found his girl very neglected full of itch etc. With regard to Daniel Dear Heb. seems to believe him rather than Obr. but this is mere surmise. Now farewell. I am quite well and glad to be once more back to Malabar. With love
 your HG

