<To Thomas Stanes Esqr, Coonoor, Nilgherry Hills>1

 30 July <58>*
My dear wife

Wednesday early went to Kaity where I saw a letter of Mgl from Alexandria. He seems to have met with interesting people to whom he could preach Christ. - Plebst will within one month go to Bangalore to cast new Canarese types. <Kittel>2 ist still in a strange state of mind. <He is>2 very excitable, chiefly if dogs bar<k in the>2 night - then to Dobbie's house. Mrs. is evidently not yet converted, says so herself to her husband but becomes only the more sulky. She sulked to her heart's content from dinner (where she had shown her dislike of Hebich) till night and I did no more see her. Few people at the meetings. I3 saw there again the Clemons, who often hear from Mrs Beaman (former Miss Gompertz). She is truly converted suffers much from her husband's infidelity and wishes to be prayed for by Christian people. - In the evening Mrs and Miss Coombes were present till 9 PM - nice talk about Scriptures. Slept again in Harkness' room, who in the morning walked with me some distance on my return. They have hardly any rain at Ooty this month, only drizzles.

Today the overland, but nothing from Stuttg. Perhaps you get it again in the first place. On the 6th or 7th of Aug. I shall despatch my homeletters. Therefore think about it. I donot think of any longer stay up here. 
Mrs Coffin paid a visit as also Miss Hale and Mrs van Someren. The latter remembers you from Kartery. She is indeed a superior person. 
Now farewell Peace with you
 yours HG.

