 Cal. <Tell?>* 26 Febr <58>*
My dear wife

This morning Diez left with Hanhardt. Going late to bed and awaking with their start has kept me tired during the day - but happily the stomach is allright. Marie is truly interested in what Hebich told her and I know the Lord is interested in her too. So let us hope and pray for entire results. - The man Harley alludes too is I believe that rogue Joseph <(the peon)>* whose sister was Elizabeth. - May the Lord bring to light in His own time whatever of secret sins remains hidden espy in those who are to preach the gospel. For truly their wickedness is the greatest obstacle to the success of the good message. I saw Esra - once at Mangalore - he looks better I think than formerly but I won't trust. Isabella looked very nice and was glad to see Mary. Her husband is now well spoken of. Cat. Matth appears to be sick.

Nothing else here worth speaking of. They have vacation - and afterwards it seems the RCatholics will all leave the school. At Cann they are less determined, still many will leave.

Love to all
 Yours HGdt



1Rev. Dr. Gundert, Cannanore, stamped

 Trichoor
My dear Dr Gundert

A man named Ansep2 who was employed as occasional reader with Mr Hebich and who was in the Custom House at Cannanore for some time came here and wants to get a situation as Reader. - He appears to be a proper person and the reason he gave for leaving was that he wanted to join his family His house is only about 10 miles distant and if there be nothing against his character I should like to try him Please let me know as soon as you conveniently can.

I hope you had a pleasant journey after you left us I am thankful to the Lord that I am getting stronger now

With our kind regards to Mrs Gundert and yourself -
 Yours very sincerely
 H. Harley

