 1Calicut 25th August 58.

My sweet dear Paul

I was very sorry to hear you had been so much suffering from your poor leg. - I hope you will tell me plenty of what you thought in that time and whether you prayed really. How thankful we are to be that the Lord has spared you and now you have a new joy, I hear, your brothers having come to the Voranstalt. The Lord is very good to have brought them there and I hope He will make them right and proper Missionaries. Are you not very glad they have come?! - to tell them all your little stories and disagreaments etc. I hope dear Frederic will be especially thankful, as he may now and then get a little help in his great difficulties in learning! - For me, it is a great joy to know that you 5 brothers are near each other, not only for your present enjoyment, but I trust that All of you will become by and by real men of God, love and serve him who has given His life for you. - How do you like your new house? How fine that will be when once the Missionhouse, Voranstalt and Kinderhaus will be in one compound. As I have written the last time to dear F. and David, I only send them a kiss this time and hope dear Frederic will profit by his brothers. - We have been long without dear papa, you know, but now he is coming back again, and we rejoice greatly to see him. In this school are 47 girls and some women. My poor little Albino Child Lydia is also here and likes to learn with Marie. Does David remember her? Adele Fritz likes very much to play with her. Now I must say … Dieu with a tender kiss
 your own Mama JG

