 Mang 9 Jan abds <58>*

Dear wife

Tomorrow Sunday - the 3d in Mang - I write this evening a few lines in order to continue to say that nothing has as yet arrived per Pattimar, however we see many coming slowly down, and one may at last bring our people. It is a curious world, Mr Layer ______1 Gomp. and Brett were this evening for tea. G. has told Br. he must leave his house - merely because in his own house he will be freer to speak to officers and can invite newcomers to stay with him - in order to sow the good seed. His health appears somewhat better and then you know how determined he is to do his work, and chiefly his Master's whatever men and even brethren may think. The Dr feels it a little, but it cannot be helped.

McGrigor has written a beautiful letter of I don't know how many pages from Cann. Quite delighted with the close of the old year not at all sleepy - feels Heb's power, likes Robinson with whom he stayed, goes to no mess and shows to all his colours in a manner not to be mistaken. It is indeed very cheering.

We find that Haller is in a nice way to get settled - also Keuler has on Newyearsday burnt the letters of that girl and becomes more manly. I see every where progress on Balmatha. With Degg it is the old story, but I hope he will soon go home. However the Comm. have not yet ordered Pfl to give the money and he has nothing to spare.

Keep my money papers from Madr till I come, if they have not already been sent here. - West has paid me.

Amm. makes strange stories - in talking with Hauser and awakening distrust in him against the Mang brethren and Hebich. I must say I regret this very much and could not have believed it formerly, but he is apparently in a very fretful mood - Mörike writes only laconic notes from the hills - from Cann and Tell nothing at all, except a complaint of Sauvain's as if I had not distributed the thread aright. I have left this to Strobel's and C Müller's decision, but should like when I come back to Cal. to find yet the original order of what Mrs Diez wished last year (70 Dozen I think). After not looking at the packet for 6 weeks the Sauv's find that they have much less; - but it does not matter if the papers have been destroyed. May the Lord give you a good Sunday and keep you patient in this long waiting  Your HG

