 Coimbatore 28 May <58>*

My dear Marie

It is as you say very good for us to have dark times that we may learn to appreciate the light. He is light, we are dark - planets or moons that must be shone upon if they are to show any light. Lift up the light of thy countenance over me, is a continual prayer of such as have felt the unutterable darkness of their own nature. In thy light we see the light, otherwise if as light emanates upon us we shall call black white, and make God not merely marked by some spots and shadows, but very darkness, so that we at last curse Him. Men have done this - so should we, if He does not send His light and grace. He can send it he can also withhold it, we cannot force it out of Him, were we to burn or cut ourselves to pieces. Now it is a great art to learn how to get God to shine upon us, whilst yet it all remains with Him, whether He will do so or not. His Son's name is irresistible with Him. He has given us in that a handle with which we may turn Him, though He will never become a machine obedient to our pressure. But we learn how to be at the same time very wretched and resigned, and also bold and impudent in using that name. If He had not died for me, what claim have I on God. He is shrouded in His own inaccessible glory; but I can tell Him: no, thou hast also become a part of me, I am of thy Son's flesh and blood, that blood was shed for me, that body broken for me, my brother a man sits now at thy right hand, all things hast thou put under His feet; so have mercy, do also the needful with my old nature, let it die on His cross and be buried in His grave with all my sins old and new, great and small, past and future even! You are right, your real conversion has not yet come. For it must be owed altogether to Jesus taking you up, not to your taking Him up. You must become God's work in Him, before you can do the works of God. It is right you weep for it and ask Him, but one day or other you must and will believe that He has done it, is doing it, when you will give all the glory to Him. Otherwise you might become a proud spirited Saint, a family alas! but too numerous. Now wait upon Him, … la Jer. 17,14 and you will not be put to shame.
 Goodbye Your Papa

