Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coonoor 7 <Aug>1 1858
My dear wife

You wonder how the Lord can use people who have still so much of self. But I suppose he has done so from the beginning. Of course it is a wonder. However He sees fit to work not merely thro' weak but also through defiled instruments however much He would delight to have a sufficiency of purified souls and hands in his service. That was the grief of the prophets of old. They felt how unclean they were, and how little their high position accorded with what they felt of the utter corruption of their hearts: and yet they were used to good purpose, and with us also where shall we find one that does not bear about him the marks of his old offspring though he is so much honored as to bring souls to Christ. I dare say Gomp felt like Peter of old: Go out from me Lord for I am a sinful man

Plebst left the <Revd. Dr H. Gundert>2 yesterday, after his last visit to C. He will now soon go to Bangalore, in order to cast Canarese types at Sanderson's. We have thought it would be a good thing if we had also Malayalam types in Tellicherry or Mangalore.

The Governor is likely to come to <Coonoor>2 for his health's sake. Drs do not like to speak about his illness, as they seem to disagree about it, But it is now said he is better than he was.

Mgl has certainly disappointed us all. For who did not expect he would go to Basle and there hear what they had to say against him, before he broke off. From letters I never expected any good in his case. Only free conversation could have removed the obstacles in the way. May God still guide him, so as not to destroy. H Kaund. seems to long after being set free from the work in the Congregation for the purpose of devoting himself to itinerating work. But I fear he only wishes not to be bound down to regular duties. Or what else can it be? We hear little from the Mang brethren, and that little is not very satisfactory. But at Hoobly there is something new. A smith came out in a neighbouring village and he feels strong to remain in the place and witness to Christ amongst his own people. Müller however does not write about it, we know it only from Dharw. brethren. Strobel is I believe very diligent in his new station. I am glad to see him again on my way. If only the English work does not prevent his progress in Mal! Now farewell Grace be with you and
 Your HGdt

