 Palghat 18 May <58>*
My dear Marie

Yours of the 13th gave me real joy, because you had the courage not indeed to speak but at least to write to me of what passed in your heart. I confess I mistrusted in some degree what I read formerly in your letters to others; that is, I believed that you felt so, but doubted how far the work was of God, which means how far it was contrary to your nature and full of eternal seed. You know many a plant grows lustily and forms even a flower, but at last fails to produce fruit - and we old people have seen much of that kind in ourselves and others so that we easily suspect even what is real to be only a very fine likeness of the thing itself, but still a mere shadow. You are very excitable and have perhaps repeatedly felt God near you, where duller compagnons remained untouched. But the question with us is not how far the feelings are influenced, but chiefly how far is the will broken, overpowered, led into new channels, roused to hate the old things and strengthened to pursue the new way, all in fact what you read in 2 Cor. 7,11. You see there how the beginning of a new life dates much more from sorrow than from elated and happy feelings. So it was also with Peter's love which our Lord tried 3 times because he had thrice denied him. It was good for Peter to be made sorry by the Lord's question. Take it also for good if our doubts grieved you. Don't think that I ever despaired of you, I believed indeed that you are able to destroy yourself but I also have believed that the good Shepherd loves you better than your parents and I trusted He would do His own work perfectly in His own time. I now trust that He has begun it and all will depend upon your faithfulness. He can treat you like a restive pony if you will have it so, he can also guide you without spurs whip and bridle merely with His eyes if you will have it so. Look up to those true eyes they will never deceive you. There is no mistaking them if one wants to be led by them. Only donot expect great trials, be ready for little trials every day and hour, and thus make your acquaintance with his strange but very even and blessed ways. Commending you to His word and Spirit I remain with a kiss
 Your Papa.

