To Marie Gundert

 Coimb. 6 June 58

My dear Marie

I was much refreshed by the dear letters from home and liked what you wrote about them. When my sickness and the separation begun I foresaw that much must come what will not be exactly meant for your eyes, but as you had come nearer, I begged Mama to let you read it all to her trusting that if any thing annoys you, you will be able to make allowances for it and not behave like old Ostrich who thinks all is right if he sees not that others are occupied with his affairs. - When I said you were lustiger afterwards I did not presume to judge of the inside, but merely related an outward fact. I also know that the heart may cry and the mouth laugh, and Salomo already knew it (prov. 14,13). It was to me a harder task than I can well say, to begin our intercourse with being the tyrant father of the Comedy. But I had no doubt of what I was do do if I looked to your best. Your age alone was sufficient to determine that point. And here I may well say, that I think J.B. acted as he did from a feeling of honour, that he may at first have supposed the flirtation was amusing for a voyage and need go no further, and afterwds had some compunction when he discovered how much your heart was concerned in the matter and therefore at last felt himself bound to make serious proposals to Isbg. But he may nevertheless have felt relieved when the matter came to nothing. You need not therefore think that I claim the right to decide whom you are to marry - or to love - and whom not. Your _...t is your own or rather His that loved it first. Now if you are wise you do not drive out one folly by another, but the lesser passion by a stronger one, the earthly love by one of a heavenly and eternal character. And then you will be able to look calmly back upon those days of momentary excitement. They are once in your life story and you cannot banish them out of it, so you must ask the Lord in what drawer to put them and in what light to view them. By your own strength you will only make a mess of it. 
Now farewell, love to Mama. I went to the Tamil service this morning, but was rather sleepy. The Hodges will relate you stories of Mr* Strobel etc Good bye
 Your Papa



 1Palghaut 2d June 58
My dear Mrs Poulson

I received your kind note of today, in answer to which I direct you to arrange the matter concerning the purchase of your house with him who knows all

