 Coonoor 18 June 58

My dear wife

I had intended not to go out so soon, but yesterday evening the Stanes persuaded me to pass the evening (and night) with them, and thus this morning finds me addressing you out of their house - on good paper. It is not that I have either to answer one of your letters, for none has reached me, except that from Basle nor to communicate any great news, merely to tell you that I have now passed a whole day and night, and find nothing in the climate affecting me mischievously. I felt at first some fear lest I might be obliged soon to go down again, should the change affect the liver etc but I am less aware of the cold than those who have been longer up here; and tho' I keep mostly indoor it is only from precaution, not as if I felt invalidelike. I shall therefore try to pass about one week in retirement, and then only begin to go more about. In process of time days will come when I may visit Kaity and Ooty - but for the present I forbear. - Rama arrived very tired all his Coolies had run away on the road, saying the loads are too heavy and substituting others became thus necessary in the midst of the way. He had also in the first evening left his Cambly with my things and fearing to awaken me, passed the night sitting in a corner rather than lying, without any covering besides his common clothes! I scolded him for not coming into the room at once. He has indeed done very well all this past month - or rather 5 weeks. - Yesterday afternoon Mrs Hoch had the prayermeeting in their house. I find that I in fact occupy the drawingroom of the house and therefore occasion changes. The Ladies had to go to the dining room instead. But Sunday service I think will still have to take place in mine. I have not yet had a fire kindled, nor do I drink wine as at Coimb. but coffee with great delight. So then you see me established up here for the present. Love to all and grace be with you
 Your HG

