 Mang 2 Jan 58

My dear

I have nothing to answer and hardly any news here, but it seems Kaufmann telegraphs to Bomb. about his bride and has got the news from there that they will not leave B. before today. Very stupid business it would seem to me, if not all things were well arranged before hand - no thanks to any man. Degg. you know wants his boxes. Let Fr. send them soon. - Yesterday we had only 7 people in the Tamil service, the evening before the Lord's supper was celebrated at Gomptz's. I have arranged with Nancy that she will be a sort of Headservant to Mrs Hauff.

Tomorrow evening I intend going to Carcal, to be back I trust in one day or 2; it is to open the school there I shall have also to go to Casergode if nothing intervenes. Possibly I may touch there on my way down the coast. - Kaund. has now decidedly written for a Europ wife, to be chosen by Mrs Mgl at Tübingen. Pfl knows nothing on this subject, nor Camerer who has however mentioned Miss W. to his mother. I suppose when the gentlemen come from Bomb we shall hear a little more on these subjects. How stupid that they do not write one line per post, just as if we were nothing to them and they nothing to us. Kies cannot come down now it seems to Tudry, perhaps Muller comes from Hoobly, or Kaufm. himself has to come to meet her here. - Why did you not open the 2 letters of Carr. They came both together. I hear that A.<nna>* has been sick, HK suspects she may have managed to get rid of her pregnancy in order to avoid the censure of the Holy Mother Church. I can see nothing of Salomon. - Gomp. is not yet decided to take sick leave, however it is very probable. Maj. Hodson will go home and retire in August, he is still very bitter agst Carr. Now farewell, perhaps I may yet write tomorrow before starting in the Mandjil

 Yours affly H Gdt
