 Calicut 26 Aug <58>*

Dear Papa

Esau has just been here he sends much love. I have always much joy to see the man. he had joy the other <day>* by a new man who came to him. We paid all our visits the Cooks, I told him that he should call Mr Fritz to speak with his dieng child; Mr Hollow was specially kind and sends you a good serement de main, he is always very glad to see you and hear about you she was more aimeable than formerly. Dear Mrs. Grant nice; but some fear I think of going too for less they appear to other to form a party, against them, she perhaps speaks so on account of him who is not so advenced as herself. She spoke of having a prayer meeting among us Ladies. Mrs. Haultain shall be I trust a good addition. On our way we saw the Wells too his sister Mrs Stewrd <Steward>* I like better than Mrs. Wells.

Yesterday Fritz received a letter from Mrs Irion saying that during the night Hebich and <Chr>* Muller had come in quite unexpected. the same morning came in the Sauvains too. She did not know why they came; but Hebich passed before Sauvin without saying a word evidently displeased. As soon as I know more I shall let you know Fritz expects to hear from Irion soon about this.

just now came a letter from Mrs I saying that Heb and Muller had returned to C, that the Sauvains were still there would remain a few days and return to Cherical which they had left with a mind not to return again, they show no repentance, these are the words of Mrs Irion more we do not know. A fine letter from Handybo to his wife with one of Mrs Groves I will send next opportunity
 Yours JG

