Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Palgh. 18 May <58>*
My dear wife

Your letters arrived both nicely, but having had to write in a hurry to Basle and Stuttg I am rather tired and beg you to be content with a short answer. - No palki was wanted - I did never get wet in the Manjil - The food very good, I eat no more at night, drink only once brandy and water. How glad I am for the Degg's (your 3d letter has arrived) Gomptz I trust will find an open door with Hodson, and Heb. perhaps with Sauvain - I wrote to Arb. that I would wait for the answer from the Court of Directors and stated fully my feelings with regard to the educational work. I have asked Basle for a decision, sending them copies of both letters and am now perfectly quiet. There was no mistake as I understand it in what I experienced at Cochin, it was certainly useful every way to come to an open declaration. - Rama is doing very well Strobel lives still with me, seeks to get Miss Poulson's house near the Mission Compound - she asks 2500 as her price, Obrien talked of 1000, and asked what the rent was. Probably it will be a small sum, and then we have a fair beginning here. To live in the Verandahroom is unadvisable at any rate. - I am glad to hear of Marie's timetable and share in the work. You will grow doubly together thro' my absence. - Bühr. writes nicely also about Blumhardt who says, the demons in India are not so malicious as those in Europe, not having yet looked into the light. Enclosed a letter from Hoch, Marie will read it to you, show also to Fritz. Love to all. The Lord will do all things well. Tomorrow you get no letter, D.V. after tomorrow one
 Your H.G.

