 11 June <58>*

My dear Marie.

I have 2 letters of yours before me of the 9th and 10th Mrs Daur's little verse is indeed very simple and comprehensive. If H.<arriet>* H.<odges>* shd despise you, I think it can only be from not knowing herself. I believe that worldly men of some experience in their own affairs do not despise others without despising themselves first. Nearly the first thing in a Christian is the feeling how much more he sees of evil in himself than in others. - I have not yet read your letters to Europe except that to Herm. and I think it quite right that you show him your mind just as it is. It cannot hurt him to be told that you like considerate treatment. As for writing another letter it is something which I now and then felt would be very desirable, but I am generally too lazy, and trust that if it was hurtful God may have it lost in the transit, or take away the evil so that the readers be not injured but rather pity me. One cannot always make the 2d positively better than the first was. Perhaps you see some levity in this. Then don't imitate me. Thank Mr Fritz for his letter of the 9th which arrived yesterday - today the pomegranates came (Rs 2.4 - paid for them on post) I believe one was taken out, as there were only 13 instead of 14, one I ate immediately, because I had this morning finished my last one from Ward. But now I am medicineless and feel only the bitter for it, so that this eating is more a Schleckerey than a needful help to the poor body. However I shall leave a good rest to Str. As for the curry I shall ask Rama to advise me and hope I shall write accordingly. Letters sent on Monday morning may reach me at Coonoor on Wednesday, and even a day later may yet do for the overland post

 Now farewell
 Your papa

1Dear Sir

I shall feel much obliged by your allowing the accompanying boxes to remain in your house - and which I have directed a Native to pack in a bandy as soon as my things from Metupalliam arrive, and then he will bring it to Palghat. -

 Believe me Dear Sir
 Your's sincerely
 A. C. Rehling.

