<Revd. Dr H Gundert, Coonoor.>1

 Coonoor 25 June 58
My dear wife

Yesterday I visited W Stanes who has sprained his foot and cannot for some days visit his plantation; he is truly nice, though not so childlike as his brother. Yesterday I also sought for Mrs Francis, but had to repeat the visit today as she was at Ootamund. I liked her very well. Haultain's behavior to E Thomas has of course made them rather averse to Hebichism or rather Hebichitism. She knows from Arthur Francis that his wife is really recovered, but thinks they will have their leave extended. Of Mrs Conolly she said that her mind was still disordered tho' less than formerly. Her son Arthur writes in a cheerful manner. She seems to look upon herself as forsaken by God and is hardly able to pray. Mrs Onslow once prayed with her, but could not move her to pray for herself, and she seems to dislike Mr Conolly's relations. As she still thinks herself very poor she may possibly send out her son as Cadet to India. - I have not yet heard if the bull has been sold. Mrs Hoch has ordered her Aden cow to be brought up to the hills, because Jacob charged so much for its maintenance. - Rama is well and sends Selams to Madame Missy etc. They tried to find something for trowsers but have not yet succeeded - I had just written to Young when your letter arrived. But if you send me something for her, I will include it in my next letter to the Isle of Bute. - The witnesses now come direct to Coonoor. - Here we have no rain at all. At Oot. there is very little, so I may one day go there for their Wednesday meeting. Not however next Wednesday as we wish to commence one here.

I have also visited the Scudders. He has the Tamil Church here, which I hope to see congregated next Sunday and where I may meet Chinnappan and perhaps others. Andrew of Chittoor is to be ordained by the Americans. They are very well pleased with him and with Susan too

Now farewell to you and Marie
 Your HG

