 Calicut 6th June 1858

Dear papa

This is not a long letter; but as I have just a few lines ready for Sister Muller I enclose it here. I have also no news. Fritz will have written to you in sending our children's letters! Convert had a home letter which left Neuchatel the 3d may and was here the 3 June. Stroble wrote a few lines after the cooly had arrived, he is some what unwell with dysentery diarrhea.

Miss Will wrote too rather nice with much love to you I would have sent her letter but I miss it She has written to her Aunt wheter it would be convinient for them to receive her in case she would like to go home. Poor Missi does not feel that they till now have showed no real love nor sympathy to her, She excuses herself not to have mentioned this to us before writing it to home. I would be glad for her if she could go there and love would be showed her; but I fear nothing will be done for her. No letter as yet from you, but it may still come a small note to you from Whitehouse thanking for what you have sent else no news I shall send it by next written paper  Yours Julie Gundert

May you have a good day, peace and joy in Him.



1My very dear Papa!

I forgot last time to thank you and still your dear letter gave me much pleasure! in the Galatians I go on in reading, and find indeed many things for me. I also will look in my History book how our Germans came there. I am so very ignorant! Poor papale I often think what a pity it is not to learn when one has such good opportunity. Well now I try to learn as well as I can, but the capital thing for me is still to learn what I am to find out this important thing and I see also more and more that I am indeed Nothing and that only through Jesus I can become something and that in Him I become much! A Child of God is a high creature, something greater than the whole world. Oh to be a real faithful obedient Child of God what a happiness I do not know, I feel already something of it, it seems as if I by this Mercy I become it more and more
 Your Mary.

