Mrs Gundert, Calicut, stamped*

 Palghat 4 Febr <58>*
My dear wife

From Tirtalla I wrote by outside Tappal to let you know that the Manjil had safely brought me so far, the greater half of my way to this. When in the afternoon of the 2d I set out from Tirtalla the East wind came as from an oven, I once even thought of returning, so fierce it was. However I reached Vaniencolam soon after 7 and then determined no more to go much in daytime. The next station I accomplished between midnight and the first dawn. And the last I divided so that 1/3 was done in the evening 2/3 this morning, sleeping some hours in an ant invested Satram near Mancara. I arrived here before 5 AM, and the dogs soon awakened Obrien. I have then enjoyed a good sleep and am now fit for my work. But if I can I shall in future avoid this month. From Codacal all along this Ponany river to Palghat the Eastwind blows now with intermission only at night. Nighttravelling is very agreeable, sometimes even cold. But the days and chiefly the afternoons are trying. Here nearly all the railway laborers are laid up with fever. Obrien relates a good deal of what is interesting Joseph looks indeed somewhat more natural since he is married. Daniel very much as he always did. Mr Tomlinson is at Ponany (and tries I hear to be appointed in Mr Smyth's place) Obr. supposes his wife to be truly God-fearing, I shall therefore go and see her. Rama cares most tenderly for me. If I sleep in the morning he makes both coffee and Chocolade that I may choose - c'est comme pour les plus grands Messieurs que l'on peut voir. - This is my birthday and the Lord is gracious to me also at this stage of my pilgrimage. Some years more any how and it will be ended.

Saturday morning I shall leave D.V. for Alattoor, and Tuesday morning may find me at Trichoor. Wednesday at Beuttler's. Such at least is my calculation now. The Lord be with you all and give you peace. Love to Marie etc  Yours HGdt
