 [ca. 31.5.1858]

My dear Mary.

Herm's letter was indeed somewhat altklug, no wonder if it riled you (americanism) a little. What people think of one's outward life is a little matter as you will find more and more. I wish I gave them always the impression that at any rate my inward life is both rich and poor, rich because it has a living fountain within that cannot be exhausted, poor because it is all received in a beggar's way. The outward life cannot be criticized from a distant standpoint. I know that in Europe much looks low that ought to be easy to us here, much high that cannot easily be changed. It is in vain to seek for a common measure therefore have I written little about many trifles because I found what a strange impression they conveyed: as f.i. Boswell gives his house to the Mögl's Mrs M's relations hear it I think thro' tante Jette and fancy M's have become immeasurably rich, but it is a poor bungalow, not 1000 Rs worth, would be called a hut in Germany no house. Still a Major had lived in it. To hear of a wicked girl sent away from Kornth now mounting daily her own Schimmele - and Papa having nothing better to do than to ride with her thro' the Anlagen probably, is enough to make 1000 people forswear giving henceforth a Kreuzer to the Mission. Yet I let you write on, thinking how enough you will get of it when once all your letters have received their answers. Now don't let these trifles stick within you, but use them in the right way to strive the more to please God and do things so that you need not be ashamed of Him. Whether then you be called high or low what matters it. Keep to the Galatians a little while, you have Gallic blood within you and are easily bewitched (Gal 3,1) easily turned one way and the other. Also a German tribe was amongst those Galatians straying into Asia, Germanopolis they called their city and they probably thought what comes from the great capital must be a fine fashion and aped it. Take warning. <I. A. C. Boswell>1's house is very nice and airy but empty. He comes perhaps one of these days. Read the German letters in the packet they may partly interest Mama, then give to Fritz. Keep them lastly for my return. Nothing to be sent back Now may the Lord guide you straight on
 Your Papa

