 Palghaut <17 May 58>*
 Monday morning
My dear wife

Yesterday evening we arrived here safely before dark. At Vanienculam in the evening we had yet the visit of the Palgh Engineer, Supervisor Bailey, a former Serjeant of the Sapper. We gave him tea - slept well, and in the morning I tried riding instead of Strobel who was very tired. In fact I rode the whole station to Lackadi, about 8 miles, only tired by holdg the umbrella all the time agst the rain. Str. enjoyed the Manjil. In outward things he is yet quite a child: laid himself with his dirty boots into the Manjil, left it open to the rain, and in the bungalow allowed me to spread and hang about all the things he had wetted, whilst he walked about in high glee, saying fancy only, what a curious building. He took however in best part what I told him. In the afternoon fine weather, so I insisted on leaving for Palgh. But the bearers, poor Coolies, partly Nasranis, accustomed to bear 2 balanced loads on the shoulder, but strangers to the Manjil resisted long. I forced them on and in Puttiripala 1 1/2 miles from Lackadi bought ropes, to tie bamboosticks to the Manjil. This is here quite a novelty. Then they proceeded at a great pace, and were much envied by the other Coolies with the boxes, some of whom begged hard to exchange places with them. Two miles from Palgh I met a lady on horseback, heard here it was Mrs Stevens returning to Cann. who only can get bearers at Codacal, and therefore rides that part of the way. She and Miss Mortlock (cousin of Mrs Robins) had been here and very bitter agst Hebich. Miss Mortl. called him a Billingsgate preacher. Strobel had arrived nearly an hour before me he appears to have learnt to ride by this trip. From Beypur to Tanur the horsekeeper had to lead the horse - on the last stage he trotted and galloped. Obr. came. Sad stories of Daniel's gourmandise and extravagance, buying f.i. a bottle of Portwine for Joseph's weakness of stomach, in consequence of which Jos. was drunk before he had brought the bottle home. The lies Dan. and Jos. told are really beyond description (how Strobel had been forced by Heb to beg Jos's pardon - how I and Mgl. had drunk wine in Coorg during the Cholera time till we were tipsy etc). Yet says Obr. Dan. was a faithful and diligent preacher until Joseph came. He doubts not that Joseph had bad intentions to say the least towards Dan's wife. Obr. is very loathe to leave Palgh, where he has learned chiefly to like the Shanars and hopes most of them. We looked at houses this morning - You will ask after bowels - 1 1/2 mile from Palgh I had once to go aside into the jungle - that one time. And after all I am stronger and walk better. Had yesterday nice time with Str. so that the Sunday was not all spent in locomotion. Heard from Hoch who thinks me much quicker than I am. Now farewell and grace be with you all.
 Yours HGdt

