 <1858>* <Juli (?)>*

My dear Marie

You are the plurality well, as you write, of which I am very glad. But this plurality is a singularity: I mean it is a word very oddly used. We are for the most part well or Most of us etc will do. Mrs Mgl is I think well - Mrs Hoch weak. She will be glad to stay some days with us at Calicut when they return to Mang in Oct. then you may hear stories about your first time at Gundeld which will have long been forgotten by your memory.

Lieut Hay here (of Gomp's Regt) knows already of God's doings at Mang. and is somewhat startled and coming near. It seems that Taylor the Ind. Navy Captain is very well known every where, also up here, and as a clever man his being converted makes some noise. May it do so to some purpose  Your Papa


1Mein lieber Gundert

Mörike und Plebst sind Sonntags nach Kotagherry, und gedenken heut Abend in Hurricane Hall zu übernachten. Da Thom nicht dort ist so möchtest Du so gut sein und für sie dort Quartier machen lassen, außer sie kommen in unser Haus zum übernachten. Plebst ist zu Fuß und wird ziemlich müd sein. Aber Du wirst schon wissen, wie ihnen zu helfen. -

Da sich sonst Niemand viel um mich kümmern wird, so denke ich ists unnöthig Grüße beizusetzen
 Dein W.H.

Niebuhrs Leben I und III folgen weil Nieb. Röm. Gesch. nicht zu finden! 1My dear Brother Moerike*

I am very sorry I shall not be at home to meet you. I came here hoping to find you at home. if you like to stay at my house pray do so and make yourself comfortable, with love
 affectionately
 Tom Stanes

