 Coimb. 29 May [1858]

My dear wife

Yours of the 27th and the packet were 2 days on the road. I was much refreshed by the news of Goddard. Had just written a serious letter to the Stanger's, telling them what G. told me of St's doings and exhorting him to humble himself with his Engineer as long as it is time. For, I showed him, our recommendations will be very feeble if by all his antecedents he shows himself an impracticable though perhaps wellmeaning man. If he wants any thing of Glasson to address him direct. Did her letter not strike you as being quite as selfrighteous in her way as his to Mgl was. What did G. say about Hebich? Is Rodgers close with Gompertz? - I may have been mistaken about the A.<ddis>* They have their own ways and a man who for 30 ys has not left the country cannot but be full of peculiarities: but his heart seems right. He longs for a revival, feels quite stirred up by the accounts from America, was glad to hear of our 47 story and becomes more familiar. They are strict tutotallers1. - Tell me when the parcel from Alattoor arrived - on the 27th? It was sent off on the 7th or 8th and I have to write to the Post Authorities. I took a writer today who does pretty well and clear off my business, which had been some days in arrears. Ask Fritz and Convert when they visit Coilandy in June to look into the school and to hear a little what is said about the Master there. - I hope Bossh. has made haste to roof his kitchen. He set so deliberately about it that I trembled for the poor walls. - Wonder how Strobel fared with Fenn, who is a peculiarly solid and loveable brother and minister altho' a churchman. I found Str. yet very difficult on the point of making allowances for others. "Is not truth One"? Of course it is, but each party cries, it is with me, come over. It seems hard for young Christians, to believe in the gift of the Spirit and realize at the same time how different measures of it are given to each and how these can coexist with so much weakness narrowness and error in the earthen vessels. - Tomorrow D.V. to Marie, who must just cut of roses what is not too new, but has born its flower. - As for health, again an excellent day; hardly an evacuation and yet the head free and inside quiet. Now farewell
 Your HG

