 Mang 3 Jan <58>*

My dear wife

I cannot understand why there shd be 4 days without a letter from me I wrote daily except once on which day I sent at least a parcel of letters from Europe - Look at the post marks and make some noise at the postoffice. - Why do you now always begin the letters on the queerest possible page (p. 3 below) write like other people page 1 first, then p. 2, then p. 3, then the 2 bits at each end, otherwise one never knows if all is read. I have every possible difficulty in finding your connection. A Banghy parcel must yet come. After all I find your Harry is Herre! How you maltreat the names! - Samuel is not admitted at Basle. It is not yet time. "Aldinger has settled his mind for a lady from Stutgard 30 I think a Beiniger or what?" What is the 30 perhaps 30 years old? What is the name? - Johsan = Josenhans? What the commission of Mrs Holloway is you do not say, but I trust you have sent something per banghy for the letter contained nothing like a muster. - I had Tamil service this morning and more hearers than usual. The gentry have never asked for my Engl. preaching: nor has anyone visited me except Mr Chatfield. Brett is rather displeased with all of them, they are so very worldly now and Fisher I think less nice than formerly. Inspr says he fears for Mary, chiefly on acct of C. <Convert>* he being likewise of Neuchatel blood! he thinks that particularly hot. The Comm. do not like to take 2 brothers at the same time, Herm may therefore have to wait one year longer. Of Mary not a word from Bombay - The Director has sent me a bandy full of books, but to Mang, instead of Calicut! I wish I had got rid of 3/4 of them -

Well may you have a quiet week I start for Carcal now
 Yours HGdt

