Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 10 June 58
My dear Marie

Your letters are getting more and more correct don't fear to make mistakes it is the way to mend, if you seek for correction. The same is the case in your heavenly career. If you are afraid to venture on setting out, because of your liability to mistakes you will always be kept from good things and get not avoid what is evil. - The 2 passages in Luke I would unite in this manner. One word is spoken for searching ourselves, the other to guide us in our judgment of others. When I see that one is not against Jesus, tho' not a Lutheran, perhaps even a heretic in some respects and dark on points in which I am better instructed, I am not to forbid him - not to condemn him, but think that the seed of truth he has in him is as good as what I have received and will help him to the full light. But I am to be stricter in judging myself; if I do not gather I scatter, if I am not quite for my Lord and working with him, I am to suspect that I retrograde and am actually against him. Thus I am to honour every slight inclination towards Jesus which I observed in others, but I am not to be content with perceiving only that in myself, but must strive for a consciousness of being altogether on His side and having his witness within me of being a fellowworker of His. 
It was about 280 Before Christ that a strange movement drove some Gallic and Germanic tribes into Macedonia and Greece, from whence they even passed over into Asia minor, a sort of prelude to that migration of nations which 500-600 years afterwards urged so many German nations to invade the Roman Empire. We may believe that as the latter movement drove them in crowds into the bosom of the Church, so the former brought at least some firstlings to an earlier knowledge of the Gospel than would otherwise have fallen to their lot. You do well to believe the word "I will, be whole". Our Lord did and said nothing with a half heart. Oh that we were as wholehearted as He is!
 Your Papa

