 Calicut 16. 17 June 1858

Dear Papa.

Yesterday evening we got yours of the 13th for which thanks. I did weigh the mercuries' they did not weigh beyond 20 pounds for which I thought 1 As postage was the right due.

I had heard nothing about Mangal. sad stories I am sorry to hear about it but specially Ebez being in the case. Luke s wife is a very bad woman She may have seduced them all We paid our visit Mrs Robinson very nice; Mr Grant said nothing to let one know his piety his lady is to come next week. She is a friend of Mrs. Bean. You will have arrived at Coonoor this morning I trust. I wonder how you like and how you feel

This morning Marie and I wrote to the three little boys and sent it by Mr Fritz who was just sending to Bale. He had good news of his girls Miss Cul rather poorly she must go some where for her health sake. So you were able to preach once thank God for so much strengh given you. May also a blessing be... on your visit there, plenty love to Mrs Hoch. Mrs Robinson was some what anxious about him as she had not heard of his arrival at Madras which he intended to communicate to her on Monday by Telegraph. She invited Marie and me to spend a quiet evening with them! Our school is decreasing since the parents know that we let the big girls who have learnt well and are fit to marry go home they come to ask for them, to day two have gone for one of them I am sorry She was a great favorite of me and of Marie, Marie weeps I might nearly do it too; but what! There remaineth but 40 girls at school with some women besides. The second monsoon began in all earnest. Wind, rain, cool, rather too cold.

Mr Pfleiderer's account were 30 Rs for thread he sold for the school so I shall take 30 Rs from ours to pay the school is it not? Is it 30 or 20 in Phleider's account kindly tell me for I must know from Miss Will how it is. Adieu dear papa
 yours J. Gundert

