 Coonoor 25 July 58

My dear wife

Received this morning yours of the 23d for which many thanks. I supposed it to be rather adventurous now to travel up to Wynad and think it much better to delay a little.

We had today a goodly assembly of white people twice. Frank Groves was also there. In the morning I preached to Scudder's congregation who were rather attentive to my broken Tamil. It has however revived a little as I hear more about me. We had the Lord's supper. The Dutch liturgy very much like our own. I was glad to hear it once. On Saturday evening a love feast was held at Sc's house when I was also present and made the acquaintance of some nice people. Mrs Hayne and daughter were like wise there and kindly helped eating the hot native Curries So did I too. Sc. had some trouble at first to get the people for the love feast, but more in making them abandon their tails. In this he has succeeded and the Mission is determined to pursue herein a strict and consistent course, whereas in Tinnevelly it is only the high caste converts that sacrifice the hair lock, whilst the lowcaste Congregations keep it!

Your letter was too heavy on account of the enclosure for Rama. It ought to be weighed in such cases. We are now made use of by the Gr. as you see on the other page. - Mrs Francis does not come to our meetings but continues to frequent the Church. I feel now little inclination to go again to her, as she may look upon my visit as a sort of reproach. Now I must bid farewell. - The Hodges' were long gone from Palgh before I purchased the house. But it does not matter. Str<obel>* is quite content with the house at the price for which we got it. His health seems graciously preserved 
Love to all the brethren
 Your HG
1My dear Gundert

Jessie and myself wish to go into Ooty to morrow. Can you lend me a Pony I do not wish you to put yourself to any inconvenience but if you can do so I shall be very much obliged

 Yrs affectly
 J Groves
20th

I want to leave soon after 6 oc in the morning. Can you lend me a bridle I have a Saddle.

