Rev Dr Gundert, Mangalore

 Calicut 4th <Montag>* Jan 58
 <ab Mangal ges. mit Brf vom 8 Jan 58>*
 <erh 16 Febr 58>*
Dear papa1

Marie was only to leave Bom<bay>* on the 2 J<an>* by Pattimar. if you have had no letter from her or by somebody, you shall try to get out from her the story about Mr Barns an ingenier who wanted a promise from her when the Hauffs had to interfere his speaking any more to her. You will be surprised of my knowing the story already; but this morning early came Rev. Mr Tucker with his lady and Miss Clarcke; they were on the same steamer from Suez <6 Dec to Bomb>* and they drank tea with the Isenbergs on the 30th <Dec.>* they left Bombay by steamer; on the first Ja and reached here during the night. The young lady has a brother Missionary at Nattur and Tucker is going to his old station <Panivelly> he left 3 years ago; they have no children; she seems to be a nice lady. He looks somewhat like the Gentlemen Harris <Morris>2 or what name who passed at Mang some time ago; he took the Lord supper with us. I felt rather sorry that Mr Fritz or yourself were not here to help them to proceed on their way, they will leave tomorrow night to go to Trichoor. Miss Clarck says that Miss Isenberg is a nice lady but not quick like Marie. She is not much taller than myself but looks fresh and nice. The Mr Barns wanted to send her a note (one day that she was not well), secretly by the steward but was found out and forbidden to do it! Poor Marie! what a good thing! she was with people, who cared for her. on the whole her behaviour was quite correct and nice, says Miss C. but every one knew that the Gentleman wanted her, and they said that probably Mr Hauff would not allow it because they wanted to keep her for the other young gentleman that is for Finkh I suppose.

Well I believe I have given you much trouble with continual begging for things: kindly pardon me the only one thing I want more, is very easy to take it is the Copper tub in the godown (not packed of course). Mrs I. does not know much about Marie's story, except Barns, "a very nice G.", was said to have exchanged letters with M in handing books to her. When Mr Hauff reprouved most strongly and harshly the G. after which he never spoke nor came near Marie, but was much grieved to know that M after the reprimande fall in a sterick1 and was said to be very unwell; but according to these Marie behaved very well through out and gave no occasion to any one to come near; I am telling you things you will of coarse know much better than me when you receive this; but they occupied me so much in the middle of the bother with so many strangers that I do not know well what I do; the story of Marie I got secretly out of the ladies. Now Adieu I am truly tired. love to all
 yours J. Gundert

2Ich besinne mich daß mein letzter Brief an Herrn Bührer offen abgieng, was mir leid ist, hoffe aber es hat ihn niemand sonst gelesen als eben ihr. 
