Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coimb. 28 May 58
My dear wife

This was a very fine day - early in the morning came Rev D Fenn of the Tinnevelly itinerating Mission, and he will tomorrow early be with Strobel, as he returns by Trav. to his station. He is of a very loving humble spirit and busy in His Master's work. For the first time I went both to breakfast and dinner, after the latter he started with a short prayer of A. I enjoyed his presence very much without any particular conversation. Wrote to Strobel with him, but heard only too late, that it will a little depend upon Str's invitation whether he is to stay at Palgh over Sunday to minister to the English or to go on to Alattoor. I wished I could have added something to my letter already in Fenn's pocket, but would not distrust our Lord; but hope that when they meet God will direct all aright. Str may have liked to have his first Engl service according to his circular, but probably he will feel that F. might be more acceptable and useful, at all events Str would yet have time enough to address the English. I am now desirous to hear how it went off. - To Ward who is judge here I wrote a note when he came to see me on his way to Court. Very friendly, but not more light in the countenance than 15 years ago - rather something heavy compared with the liveliness of his younger years. He wants to go home, Mrs W. will not therefore come out. Lascelles is farming in Wales and his son - still somewhat unsettled - has also taken to it for a - rather uncertain - livelihood. He remembered Fritz kindly. Robinson had written to him for a house, and he knew none. I mentioned what I knew of Boswell's intention, and hope somehow or other it will be well arranged. Of B's house W. had not thought, but would prefer to have the R's - also Miss Ph. and the child - with himself. Donot report this as if I was commissioned to pronounce on the subject. I only mention it for any casual use it may be of. - No letter from you today - so I may close - adding the very earthly information, that for 8 or 9 hours I had no stool and feel very easy and sprightly.

 Farewell Your HG

