<Dr. H. Gundert. Palghaut.>1

 3d Febr 58.
Dear papa.

Tomorrow your birthday; may the Lord bless you according to the richess of his grace and live in you mightily for the salvation of some or rather of many to His praise and Glory. Tell me also how you are, is your stomack better, is the boil gone, how do you bear the journey.

You have plenty letters I trust they will reach you as soon as this. The one of Mr Fisher I thought Mr Fritz might perhaps fulfil thats to say send the book he asks; but Fritz does not find the book nor could he send it he says on service only without your signature perhaps in your next you will say what is to be done!

Marie would have like to see the letter; but I thought better to send it you without you may do what you like after word. She does not require any "ensencement" from out side there is enough of that stuff inside to nurrish the pride and vanity!

All here is as usual Mr Fritz had a long talk with C. after letters he received this morning; but I do not know about what! F looked rather serious and concerned! Diez wrote to Bess that she may do what she likes about her staying here; but her nurse says that she must be at Chombala next monday So it may be that she goes Saturday By this letter of Miss Will the Deggelers will go it seems, should I send them my watch; but perhaps they will come this way! Yesterday Mr Lawson took tea here; as he came in at halfpast 5 the girls were playing on your piano He then told me I wish to see that instrument; I asked if he had not see the one in church "Yes but this one I would like to see" After all I found that it was not the instrument he wanted to see but the Ladies so I sent them out for a walk and stayed with him till Fritz came who had enough of him till 9; for we all run away as soon as tea was done!

I wonder what Hoch will say of so many children having been received at the Lord supper at Mangalore. Hebich must have been in a great hurry confirmation has not been regarded I suppose! I have no news; but you get plenty by all the letters you received I suppose Lechlers gave to Marie to read she was much interested in it she says

Now good bye, I long to hear how you are.

 Yours J. Gundert

