 Co. 13 Jun 58

My dear wife

What a curious idea you seem to have as if I would revenge myself for your writing less than at first. You may depend upon it I write if possible every 2 days - if not much, at least something. - Young's Witnesses keep for my return. I shall then D.V. look them thro' in a hurry. - I felt nearly moved to write to Haller and warn him once more, but wished to defer it until I saw Hoch. Now it will be too late. You know that thro' Edward Brennen awful things have come to light about girls and younger women at Mang. Mr Heb would not believe them as he was just leaving Mang when it came out, but Hunziker etc have found out the truth by patient enquiry. No wonder if the Church remains dead. Also Ebenezer is in a bad state. The wives of butler Luke, teacher Jacob, compositor Charlie are amongst the implicated - and deny obstinately. - Fine letters from the Children truly, esp Samuel's. You must weigh the Mercuries before despatching them. - Yesterday I paid visits to Mrs Cornish (Dr's) and the Sullivan's (formerly at Cann in Cheya's case) - rather nice and hearty. Went to Ward for tea, but left without prayer being proposed or any question concerning Engl service for today. But this morning Ward wrote a note to ask if I felt strong enough to take it. I took upon myself to expound but had only the above 3 families (with Miss Ph.) Notice had not been sent round However as the first sermon after 3 weeks I thought it sufficient grace to be once more enabled to give a witness. Ward is very attentive and truly in earnest but so hermit like and afraid of high professions. On Tuesday when I shall be without my things and servants I hope to go to him for dinner and take Strobel along. He is now nearly cured, and walked with me this evening to the Addis, whom he found rather cool. Old A. is in the district: the son a second edition of him, in a manner comparable to the 2d edition of tea which Mglg got from Major Congdon. Mme repented again how Palgh had been their outstation, was more Tamil than Mal. had a nice Congregation, but tho' A. would not give it up to a Catech. he was ready to withdraw his Catech. if a Miss[ionar]y came to settle there etc. They don't invite Str. to the house, I cannot understand why except because they pretend to be offended by my leaving them when the Hodges came on. Well I cannot help it, tho' I tried repeatedly. It is difficult to make out what they mean. - About M's ear I intend to consult the Dr. I expected something of the kind from the first. - My writer did pretty well, I shall tomorrow assist at the examination of the school in which he was educated

Now farewell and peace be with you all. It is near midnight
 Your HG

