Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Codacal 14 May <58>*
My dear wife

I had a very nice journey to this: the bowels perfectly quiet until - after having had a morning sleep in the Chapel of 2 hours - I went to bathe and was relieved of one day's burthen. - The details are: at Beypoor 7 o'clock, very dark but no wind at the Cadalvandy ferry I asked after Strobel, they thought him about 2 hours before me. About 9 1/2 I changed bearers at Parappenangadi. The Calicut men had done very well for the _____________ and got a good Inam. With the 2d set I had about an hour's sleep. From Cadalvandi till Ta... no rain. At the latter place I looked into the bangalow about midnight. It looked very empty, but Strobel slept in it - very tired - in his wet clothes - Paul having come without the bandy and cared for no carpetbag etc. The horsekeeper told me of their slow march and then I went on. At the Tanoor native bangalow I had to make the lantern, for there came a bold shower, but it passed soon. From Pudiangadi however the rain continued steadily the last 2 miles. The trouble of seeking the house in the darkness immense, the Manjilhook (iron) broke in ascending the last hill, and I had to walk and seek for the station; bawled in vain, only the Panicker's dog answered, went there and got a guide to the house. B. had of course not even a light burning. Slept yet 2 hours after having changed the wet clothes - Strobel came about 9 after our breakfast still in his Calicut clothes which had half dried. Nobody knows where his bandy and Paul may now be. (He heard it passed the night at Cadelvandy) Rama was here all ready, the smith has mended the hook, the Coolies have all left, dinner is ready and after it we will go on. I feel much stronger than I ever thought - but shall take care now and go slowly on. B. still in the old hole, because no glass for windows! Now farewell and love to all
 Yours HGdt

Tell Fritz he is expected here accordg to promise

