Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coim. 2 June <58>*

My dear wife

The Hodges have not yet come in as I found this evening on a visit to the A. There is a convert here of the free Church Crishna Iyer. Fritz knows him, supposed to be a true man, has a wife from Mrs Anderson's school with shoes and stockgs, who has since added to them many jewels. Kisses Mrs Boswell when she comes to see her, which was found rather inconvenient; but it gave annoyance to the dark lady to find out it was not liked. Mrs A<nderson (Madr)>* no doubt meant well, but what a mistake to encourage such familiarity with the Europeans. - Rama serves me very well but I told him to get a cook for the time I am here. - I ride now occasionally and find I get stronger every day. No visit today from the Dr. - All you write of Goddard interests me much of course. I wish he may safely reach his Mama That will be a new thing for him. Does he say anything of the poor Ancola family? I am glad he will see William Stokes at Basle: they will pray together with double zeal for that wretched household.

This Gresseux is quite another fellow. I propose him to Strobel for Headmaster and will see what he writes. Such things are of course important and I like to get them soon, as I had orders hereabout to look for a Hdmaster. - Of Ernst I expected not much more than what came, he is in his first University fervor again. But he will get sick too of that scientific bustle. You remember that he spoke once of his history and promised the next time to relate of pardon of sin and peace - I reminded him of it, as it is long in coming out of his pen. Now I must wish you farewell and may the Lord give you a good time with daughter and children

 Love to all brethren
 Yours HG

