 13-14 June 1858
Dear Papa

You have received I hope two parcels one of our own letters for home, one of the Mercur and our children's letters insinde was it right to send it so? Today an other still of letters partly for home!

We have the visit of a young Mr. Leechman the son of a Missionary who was formerly 20 years ago in Bangale a Baptist he stayed only 5 years at his post his wife having become sick. the son is marchand at Cochin and has come here on business, he is a fine looking youth, likes pious people; but is perhaps not converted I would have liked you to be here and try the man. 
Mrs. Irion has already written a letter to Mrs Hodges here I will send it to Ponany say Mr. Fritz, they may be there;

May you have a good sunday and profitable for many. This will find you at Coonoor I trust, give my love to the dear Hochs and other friends. the little Moerike is a very delicat child I hear. Nothing has come from Carr for a long time is it not?

Your dear letter of the 11 came yesterday evening and gave us joye; My hurried jugment on Hermans temper was from my having just experienced some thing of the sort with Marie; whom I thought had a much freeer temper than me but by a confession of hers I see that there is much of the same evil hapily there is a phisician who healeth all sorts of diseases; the important thing is to be opened and let not even the shadow of a cloud stand between us. By the opportunity of Mr Leechman I send a few things to Mrs. Leslie worked at school. as a presant to her baby! Marie's ear is well again, at least as well as before! Mr Leechman has seen at Cochin Mr Fen who was with Stroble. he said to have delighted at the conversation he had with Stroble He preached at Cochin this young man laments that there is no meetings or means of edification at C. He likes the Whitehouse but specially Dr. L. Love from all here
 Yours J. Gundert

