 Calicut 27. May <58>*

Dear Papa.

Just as I had got up and was dressing there stood some one saying a gentleman ingeneer wants you; my first thoughts were not of the brightest thinking what a mesage may be there for me! Out of door there stood our dear Goddard on his way from Cannanore to Bepoor where is a ship by which he will go to Bombay then Home, Bale etc. His father has died and it is important for him to go now he has been advised by all the brethren to go. He was in a great hurry drank tea and went off. Henry of Hebich was with him. Our dear Gompertz could not do much with his cousin he is still unconverted. Hodson keeps aloof from the pious people, goes with the Kinderley and Fisher, so till now the stroke is fruitless! Capt Tailor it seems in the same point Goddard expected much; but he does not go farther, he is coming to Mangalore and will live with Mr Fisher! Goddard likes Kaundinya well of the remaining party he knows not much. At the funeral of Mrs Hodson Deggeler made a fine speech about resurection and life, in going away from the burying grownd G. told Thompson that was a fine word the answer was, nonesense a foolish speech it was, a preaching is not wanted near the Grave and what a preaching! things that children all know just as it stands in the bible which every body can read nothing is wanted in a funeral no preaching that is not the place! So poor Hodson whom the Lord is seeking, hard* lives and move with such people and the living water so easily got at Gompertz put there as a witness are disregarded. The Dr <Brett>* even found no room or enterance there. How thankful ought we to be for opened ears and a mind willing to receive instruction. Oh may you and I be made perfect made indeed living likenesses of our head.

two OC come your two dear letters from Coim Thanks to God for His goodness to you. I feel glad and thankful that you are there in a good Climat and under a good Dr may God give you words of life for Him and others. 28th Fritz was yesterday at Coilandy had plenty rain, it is still pouring. The two Rs for writers I have given. Thanks for all you tell me of your health I am thankful. You will feel more at home in B s house R with somebody there can do for you

This week two marriages that has kept Fritz from going to Kodacal  Yours JGun

