 Calicut January 30th <Jan.>* 1858
 <erhalt. 23 März 1858>*
My very dear sons <Herm. Sam>*

Your letters, received yesterday, have again rejoiced us very much; specially yours dear Samuel, that you can now see, that you have been born again in 1857 is to me an unspeakable joy. How good is the Lord! yea He is wonderful and faithful in his answer to prayers. Before Herman was converted whilst you were considered pious, I felt not the want to pray for you as for Herman; for whom I felt often deeply grieved and as it were now and then despairing! After his conversion only I began to fear that you had not really passed from death to life; but now He the Lord has done it and brought you fully over. praise and Glory be to Him. Oh dear sons now unite to pray much for Marie; for she is an enemy of Christ and of his children; I did not expect to find such an hatred against Him who has loved her and all those who love her in truth. She is deeply immersed in vanities and self content. I was once told that she loves but herself and cares not for other; but truly I did not expect any thing of the kind and nothing but a real conversion can make her different Oh pray that God would make sin really sinful before her eyes and give her bitterness and real repentance for her hatred deep hatred of Christ and of all what is really like Him; Papa and I do our best to show her love and ask the Lord to lead us so with her that she may feel happy in our midst and to give us grace meanwhile to put Christ before her; But as long as she is so pleased with herself what can be done? poor child! As for work and order I see till now no liking for it at all, economy is out of question! The other day as I felt grieved about her I was suddenly comforted by the beautiful promise Remain still and wait on the Lord wait patiently. May you and we learn to wait in praying continually. I am soon tired of praying and of course of waiting so help us dear brothers! She hates Herman more than Samuel do not say all this to tante Emma whom she admires more than Mama

Love to all
 Yours affectly
 J. Gundert

