 Coimb. 9/10 Jun <58>*

My dear wife

Yours of 7/8 arrived this evening. Yesterday I had a long story with a young Dane, who may become Str's first schoolmaster. He is a shipcaptain's son, educated at Copenhagen, was in the Departmt of Public works at 35 Rs, fell into bad habits and will now be dismissed, but it seems he seeks repentance. So we will try and do something for him. Hodges is much interested in him. - Yesterday evening I saw at Ward's Capt Francis (who also had befriended poor Rehling) and Col. Cotton. The latter thought much of Mrs Fritz, called them the bestmatched pair he ever met. Francis was rather nice. This morning I met Robinson there. He came also here, was very kind - will give also 100 Rs towards the house purchase, hopes they will also at Madr remember the claims of Malabar. He was truly nice, Miss Ph I have not yet seen. - In Acts 3,13 "son" and 4,27 "child" stand for a Greek word "boy" which refers to the servant of Jehovah in Isaia, for so he is there called in the Greek O.T. for child and son other words are used in the Greek N.T. - The Hodges' can hardly come before about 3 weeks. - My health is quite good, nothing at all the matter: perhaps 1 or 2 stools in the day (which means 24 hours) and then all formed, no diarrhoea no injections, rarely a pill to use up the last little box given by the Dr. So you see there is reason to be thankful. Str. is now rather fretting and feels pulled down by the watery stools. He got a very fine letter from Fenn, perhaps I send it, where he tells him how also this sickness has its very good reasons, to show how even the beginning of a Mission is altogether in the hands of a Lord who will use us but does not want us. I do not quite know if Str feels the quiet superiority of the letter and of the man. F. is much pleased with dear Beutler. Of Harley he says nothing but I hear the bishop has ordered him to Alepie and B will have to look after Trichoor. I have no doubt this is in consequence of discoveries going on whilst I was at Cochin, that involve Harley's son in very bad charges. - Hoch's pretty well, next Tuesday evening I hope to start from here to see them. - Mrs Bean is very imprudent, she ought not to have delayed a day in consulting the Dr - The Homenews have been ordered by me. I do not want them, but shall probably get them as I have written to the Madr Postmaster that I go to Coonoor. - Addis is much distressed, heard just that 100 people formerly under his instruction but led astray by the Lutherans and baptized by them in one day, also admitted to the communion, have now returned to Heathenism. Pullachi is the station where this happened. They have a heavy responsibility who first unsettled their minds

Now farewell and may the Lord keep you all.
 Your HG

