 Coimb 5. June 58

My dear wife

At last 1 letter from you 5 PM and another brought by Hodges himself 6 PM. This was something like dinner after a long fast. - Poor Francis! where is she now - I fear to think of it. May God give repentance to her obstinate perverse husbd! - I donot think of leaving for Coonoor before the 15th Surely this is yet a good time for getting strong here. - Mark I did not commence the plan of writing every 2 days. Only when I have nothing to answer it is plain enough that I feel less drawn to write. After you have 3 times practised this new way I have been tempted to it once. But I can walk in both as Mrs please, or in either. - What Mr Th wanted I donot know, but suppose that Arb wrote to him and asked his advice how to have the duties of my office performed during my sickleave. Whoever does them gets half of my pay: it is therefore a question of shillings and pence. Perhaps he himself might act, draw the money and employ one of the lower Masters in performing the duties. Arb. as I said yesterday passed thro' this without seeing me: the probable reason whereof will be that he does not yet know how to provide for the carrying on of my duties. I am glad the books are selling. Henceforth I shall have nothing to do with them, but deliver the rest to a Curator whom Mr Th. is to appoint. The Mangalore Curator I shall have to recommend prob Pfleid. or Keuler. - Learn to write names like Hanhardt, Grant. You quite disguise them by your masks. People wish to have their names spelt correctly. - Strobel had the Dr twice to see him, he is already better - but I really am a little anxious about him so lonely at Palgh and so very shiftless and griffinlike. He knows hardly how to provide for himself real necessities. Mrs Poulson's house now offered for 1500 I am nearly tempted to buy on my risk, lest the fair opportunity be missed. It is very cheap for that and the fact is we can not do without it. Str cannot live in the Chapel that wet room would be his grave. He quite revives in Company and relates then all his troubles with Paul and with his Schmiermichel the first Cook, and his thick dirty drinking water, all which things other people would mend as soon as they perceive them, but he only after the harm is done. Addis and Hodges have both come to see him. Now farewell and may you have tomorrow a fine Sunday
 your HGdt

