Dr. H. Gundert, Palghaut

 5th <Febr>1 1858
Dear Papa

Many thanks for your welcome letter of Tirtalla. I was glad to hear all went well so far and hope it continues so! and that you had a good day yesterday!

The Chaplain's wife come again yesterday no news; We paid a visit to Mrs Bean and she said that she shall with pleasure take Marie for a ride the evening He was to leave her yesterday to go about again. You will perhaps meet Mr Robinson he is near Palgaut. Mr Moerike wrote to Fritz that last sunday one of the Badager had been baptised with his family 8 persons together. Thank God for such a begining. The man who has been bapti is a staddy fine charecter, they say, Hebich writes to Fritz, as if wonders had hapened at Mangalore, some girls confessed their sins etc You have seen by Missis letter that many new people took the Lord supper, they speak of 300 having taken it. When I said; but what will Hoch say at his return? Fritz said that Hoch called for him before his leaving as if he was an apostle and showed such perfet adoration to He. that it serves him well if after all he finds that Mr. H. went too far. We are thank God all well. Marie longing for your return. She comes nearer to me I think than she did and is affectionate. Bess <Diez>* is going back this evening, she is indeed nice. I liked her praying and talking with the women here on thursday in our meeting! I think she became some what livelier with Marie!

Now dear papa With love from Marie and from yours
 Julie Gundert

