 Palgh. Pentecost 23 May 58

My dear wife

I forgot already some days to mention to you Rama's ______________________ to you and Missy and Mr Fr. Herewith you have got them.

It is now settled that I go tomorrow early off to Coimb. They say there was much rain all along the rain, and won't travel by night. Therefore you will probably be 2 days without letters. - Str. will today begin his services. He knows exceedingly little of the language and I have rather frightened him about it, that if the whole next year he does not give himself fully to it he will settle down into an Engl speakg Miss[ionar]y. - Fr. needn't fear that I buy houses for the Mission without leave. But Obr. had begun to enquire about prices before we came and it is something to know that the most convenient house can be had for 2200 - perhaps less if we wait and none steps between. - The Rajendra name not required with me. - Yesterday Cat. Paul arrived with a lamentable story of his sufferings from rain etc. You know he is a good fellow but very tender to himself and family. He says his wife knits and sews, which is something. He has visited his parents on the road and spent a day with them. - It looks now a little brighter and I think we shall have more sun - Tomlinson says Rob. is suddenly called to Madr also the Subcollector here is changed. I wonder what is true of this. News there are none here. I have kept to my couch and Str. has his business with the room that is to be. He has taken a servant who will begin his work today, then I shall have Ram more for myself which I am glad of. - The children's letters very amusing. I will ask everybody for new postmarks to send to them. -

May this be a Pentecoste indeed somewhere at least in God's Church and may the Spirit do today also his Advocate's work in us
 Yours HG

