Dr. H. Gundert, Palghaut

 Calicut 22d May <58>*

Dear Papa

Yesterday I have written rather briefly, had not much time and thought you had from other people news. Today you get from Fritz his home letter vexed him pretty much that one should ask for such thing as how much the food of one person comes a month! He suspects that some of the young people have written home for inst perhaps Anheart whom he does not like much I can see! Do not mention again this to any one nor in your letters as I let F to see them. I told that the Com. had perhaps no wrong intention in this question and that he ought not to take it so hard; It is not a great matter to have to say how much about the food of one person may be in a month or in a year! Anheart seems to have said that he would rather live more simply and would not enter in the account were a nurse or Ayah is paid too. The more I see of Conv the more I think him rather proud and rude but keep it for yourself! Did you hear that this Gumpertz in returning from Bombay was recked near Udupi <nein>* there with a friend he swimed to shore asked clothes from the Missionary and went to Mang I hope his cousin our dear brother has been blessed for his soul as well as for Hodson

I am glad of your letters to Marie she wants to be repeated that in our live a change must take place, in our liking and desires. You can do it much better than me, for she thinks me too careful, when I told her once that you were also careful she said "in paper"! I hope it will come by and by. Such thoughlesnes belongs perhaps to her age; however willingness to improve must at least be in a soit disant converted person. But I may say to God_s glory that she is already different and tries in many ways to please me. Tell me again dear Papa how are you are the stools still so watery? how many times a day, can you get your medecine there? Is Paul now doing his work as Maty?

Rama has written to Changara that on the 21 you are going to Coimbatoor, he thought perhaps that from the school you went to see you would proceed on to C.

Now dear Papa with love to Strobel to Ob
 Yours affectly
 J. Gundert



 123 May Morg.

My very dear Papa!

How are you this Morning? Hope you slept nicely, as I too. So, to day is Saturday and to morrow there will be the Lord's Supper here. Wonder, when I may also once partake it! Oh that I could make my Lord and Saviour so to my own; how happy I should be if I was already quite in his communion and He in me so that I would be quite trough made holy and sanctified trough His holyness. What a love! Given His own blood, His own body for us! Oh what should we not like to do for this Love, to show that we love Him again. How often I forget this unspeakable Love, how often I do not think, that He has bought me for such a high price, and that I am but His alone. How gracious He is to permit us to come always again and that He will hear always the same thing over and over again, and how happy can we be, to know that He loveth and heareth us too.

What could we do without our dear Lord Jesus. Oh that I felt it constantly so!
 In Love yr. Marie

