 11 June <58>*

My dear Mama

Why should I be displeased with your writing less frequently? I also feel it rather heavy to write daily because I had a lazy life, translate perhaps half a chapter (of Prov.) work off accounts and directions to Schoolmasters and pay visits - In the morning at least 4 miles ride - hard work sometimes because the fellow will not carry me out, stands perhaps 6 times still, chiefly on the Palghaut road which he dreads. I have already several times desuaded to give him a good beating. Homewards he runs well enough. But then I am tired, lie and read till breakfast, Visited yesterday a school of Addis which he examined. But alas what a fabrick business! 50 boys repeating the same question one after another. I ventured now and then to put in a query as to what this or that word meant, but A. never asked seemed delighted with his 3 1/2 hours routine for which any heathen schoolmaster would have been sufficient, only excepting the prayer with which he opened the examination. Such schoolwork is more than I can well digest, and I was glad when we returned at last. Today dined with Ward, where yesterday evening I had seen Miss Philipps for a moment. He is shocked with the high professions and many scandals of the hill Christians and that seems to keep him from uniting heartily with them, tho' he is intimate with several. I insisted on the duty of keeping both peace and salt with them that profess to follow our Lord. Miss Ph looked rather dubious: I cannot make her out, but Ward is a splendid fellow even where he is in error. His love of truth appears to me an example to Christians worthy of imitation. Of Minchin he will hear nothing: Glasson's high profession also shocked him. He hears very attentively whenever Scripture texts are explained. There it is, in fact, we easily talk too much of Christians and too little of Christ. - The Dr is shyer than he was, goes every evening to the racket court for exercise - but I do not know with what society. - Str. is better, nearly the whole day up, somewhat irritated by his weakness, as I experienced likewise. I trust he may soon follow Rehling who today left for Palgh. - I met at the Ward's also an Engineer Leggatt brother of the Capt. at Hallihal, who appeared attentive. He complained that some Christians talked of being saved instead of hoping it. I explained how that might be done in truth if all our salvation is to rest on Jesus' accomplished work, whilst <Revd. Dr. Gundert>1 has to do nothing but to believe it. He was however not clear on this subject, tho' evidently thoughtful. Knew Goddard and heard he was quite a changed man. These are the sort of testimonies that work deeply and prepare the heart for receiving the same Gospel that saved a former boon compagnon.

I do not think that you have quite the right idea of Herm. He is very impressible and therefore exposed to changes of feeling, but a radically bad temper is hardly his correct description. However what it be grace will overcome it. - The Hodges will speak out freely to you, no doubt: of such things as Lechl. probably mentioned they seem not to be aware. But they are certainly careful about their niece.

Now good bye grace be with you and
 Your HG

