 Palgh 5 Febr 58

My dear wife

Yesterday evening I visited the SubColl. a Mr Smith, who cares for none of these things, has a racehorse and eats well, enjoyed Europe for 3 1/2 years and is still full of it. My business will not be hindered by him, but also hardly helped. The people very urgent about a School. Shrestadar Tahsildar etc all come to speak on the subject. Visited Mrs Tomlinson, she is more than her husbd who is absent at Ponany. Davies is announced here about the 10th. Lechler may come with him, but I wouldn't wait for the good people - it is too hot in the middle of the day. Never so many people sick of fever as this year the work near 2 bridges quite stopped etc Happily I am quite well after I had shaken off the weariness of the nightrides. Tomorrow they are to begin again. Stomach well, boil not returned, Obrien finds me quite lean - good sign. He is truly nice. - The letters came all along. Best thanks for them. Hebich's confirmation will be a real blow to Hoch, but for good I trust, to make system and method a little poorer in his eyes. Anderson's is nice. I am glad he is with large hearted people, no Churchmen of any kind. - I should have brought money here, Heb neglects the proper time, but Obr. finds always people who lend him, and then he gives first to Danl and his broth Joseph and shifts for himself any how. He is truly nice and dressed as before very commonly. The Engl schoolmaster at Coimb. converted by his means. The Churchmembers stationed here are very few. A Tier on the point of conversion - of good family is to be sent to Cannanore one of these days. I donot think that an ordained brother by preaching could do much more than is done, but certainly a school might open quite new avenues to the higher classes of the population. The __________ are esp anxious to learn English, and then the sons of merchants etc.

But I say goodevening. This ought to go to the post, and I have done a good after noon's work by writing into various directions. The Lord with you  Yours HG.
