<Mutter dictiert an Maria:>*

 <Mangalore>* <6 Oct 1858>1
 <erh 19 Nov 58>*
2My dear sons!

As I have no time just now M. will write for me but only just a few lines. Papa and M. will probably give you plenty news, so I need not to tell you much. Your last letters pleased me well and I hope my dear Hermann will also have Grace to make the Famulus Week with a good mind as My dear Samuel had Grace given him to do it. - My prayer for you of late has been, that God would make you to understand well the mind of Jesus according to Philipp. II,5-10. Not only to understand it but to have Grace to put it on too. There is nothing so Great, so beautiful and probably more profitable to ourselves and to others as to humble our-selves and learn from our dear Saviour to put on the shape of a servant and to become obedient. I had much joy in reading that Chapter and felt by God's Grace what an exeeding great power one may get in Him in seeking first of All this mind which was in our Lord, which made Him obedient until the death of the Cross for which cause also He has been exalted; We shall never be able to do any thing for our dear Lord I mean in Reality things which shall bear the furnace which is to try the deeds of man, without having become very small, which is to say, enter in our real position. Dear Hermann! We are much with you and pray the Lord to make it easy for you and to give you real joy and perfect happiness in serving others We desire ardently to hear much from you. You both you will tell us plenty of the 3 little Ones and help them in what you can, especially in being pleased and contented with the home, God has given them, which is indeed a fine one.

 With a tender kiss
 Your Mama J.G.

