 Coonoor 2 Aug 58

My dear wife

I was sorry on Sunday morning to have so little to send, but my Saturday was taken up with work for the Director and on Sunday I had to prepare for the service: that made me so short. The letter of the children was very welcome - it showed with its rents and holes how nervous you are in opening such despatches. The news of the Uncle <Simeon in Eßli.>* is to me quite satisfactory, something more might have been wished but to me it is sufficient such as it is. I can quite believe that our Lord judges more mercifully than any Assembly of His Saints would do: and that inward truth is of more value to him than the ready accomodation which would satisfy most of the pious. <H*1 Gundert>2 more I trust is now saved out of an evil world. May we make sure of our own entrance into life.

Boswells have come to <Coonoor>2 and occupy the house in which we had our meetings. We must now look out for another, perhaps Mrs Hayne's. - You write "Mrs has less of God" which Mrs? you left out the name. Is it Mrs Grant or Bean? - I do not share your feelings or fears about Herm's letter. To say the truth I prefer it to several, which contained more about his experiences and sentiments. For it seems to me desirable that a young man learn to forget himself and write about occurrences so as really to interest the readers, whilst a little reasoning will easily show him that what passes in his heart can have little interest for those that know from Scripture what the human heart is and how God works in it. Herein you and I have a different taste both from our inborn dispositions and from our education. I do believe that God does not leave his work unfinished in the boys, though not every month bring new proofs of what He is carrying on in them. Is there not now and then an exaggerated motherly fear about you, lest they go back into the world? But this we must fear from every human heart, and we must even fear it whilst the letters are very warm and full of divine truth. Only I would not try as it were to put a thermometer to each letter, in order to ascertain how warmly the heart just then did beat for our Lord. Whilst therefore we trust no man and beware of man, whatever his profession may be, I would give up the useless endeavour to watch his growth or decay in each particular, and chiefly try to be thankful for what has been done and trust to grace for the remainder. But may we not be too secure, you will say. Very possible, say I, and feel often reproved for taking comfort too easily. So we have to battle with opposite temptations. But He is faithful that has promised. Love to all.
 Your HGdt

