 Vanienculam 4 Sept <58>*

My dear wife

At Palgh. I saw Mr Child the Subcollector who is rather a clever man but has the name to be stingy and though he subscribes* to Strobel's school or rather because he does so - he likes also to direct him a little. The Tomlinson's I saw likewise and preferred again Mme to Mr T. Mrs Wallace is near her confinement and is said to be prepared for her death in case she should be too weak to go through her trial. Str. is fine: he treats Rehling in a very brotherly manner without spoiling him. Paul told me his grievances in money matters. You know he is soft to himself and cannot see where he is to break off from his wants. I think also the prices are particularly high at Palgh. My Alattoor Schoolm. came in: Child was displeased with him for disagreeing with the Maplas there. But the fact is they came to pester him about religion and as he rather openly stated his faith in Christ they beset his house at night and mocked him with songs against Jesus, how Mary would be married to Mohamed etc and when he reported it to the Tahsildar he had the men confined for 4 days. I must say I like what I saw of this Pereyra though he has not much science nor talents. Wrote to the children. Waited long for my bandy which came at last about 8 PM but put me down at the Cutwal's Cutcherry to procure a torchbearer. At last slowly off and arrived here for breakfast. It is again Saturday and therefore market here as on the day when I stayed here with Strobel. In the evening I will go on to Tirtalla, examine the Ponany School on Monday and hope to be with you on Tuesday D.V. It is clearing up and I hope to have a fine afternoon. 
Goodbye for the present and love to Marie etc
 Your HG

