 Coonoor 5 July 58

My dear wife

Ostertags letter is nice. Mrs Hoch heard also from her mother. One piece of news, that perhaps they may be forced to go home, has been heard by her from some Committee member. But for the present there is no thought of it. About this time the Committee never write, and Insp is gone to see the Prince. - Mrs Coffin was a little Plymouthian, but now I think she is chiefly world. Mrs Moer. is well and stout. He less so. Plebst at Kaity, well in spirit and growing in bodily strength. He intends to found a new Canarese Alphabet if he can get the matrices for it (from the Wesleyans at Bangalore). - Yesterday we expected the Bishop and left off our morning meeting. Instead of him came his Chaplain Barnes rather a nervous man, and gave us a preaching on Rom 8 all workg together for good to those who love God: evangelical, but not adapted for the crowd that had come together. - In the afternoon we had our service. Mrs Baylis was also there the consumptive wife of the Neyyoor Miss[ionar]y who left this a few days ago (via Palghat). - We have rather a growing congregation, also from Wiggins' house the first visit. His widow is very lifeless. - I visited the Darlings on Saturday. Pleased with the old man. - Wrote to Young and answered Mrs Y's questions. Tomorrow probably I cannot write as I go to Ooty for Wednesday's meeting. Let it be told to Caleb the printer that I am at Coonoor. Robinson I think it is that sends me the Gazette (Malabar) regularly. Fritz need not send the Homenews up. Tell him also that I keep the last money paper till the next arrive from Madras. - It has been found out that I have no right to send public letters under my frank, as I had done hitherto. So I shall have to make out a monthly account of what the postage cost my office. Rather humbling, after I had for a year had such lordly liberty! But this is merely a trifle. - Let Fritz find out who is Curator of the Calicut Depot. Thompson is to appoint the man and I have to make over to him the present bookaccounts, which until he is appointed are still coming into my hands. I am glad that this business at least will be taken off my shoulders. - Now we have some wind and rain, long expected, as there is a drought. - Good news from Kaity. Another man of Abr's village will become a Christian and has come to live in a house near to his, forsaken by the fearful neighbours. May God establish him in the truth that makes free - and us likewise
 Your HG

