 Calicut 3d July 1858

Dear Papa.

Many thanks for yours of the 29th received yesterday evening. It is of corse to late for the home letters this time, but next time will do, it seems me it is but a few days we wrote, I am much with them in my mind as they are perhaps just new in Bale what a joy will have our little ones. Ostertag does not write for a very long time! Also not the Comity to you? Fritz is rather pleased to get no letter as he is always afraid it may be some orders he would not like. Convert school increasing rapidly, malayalim books selling going on. That is rather hard of Mrs G to call a sin the presence of her daughter to the bap, so in her mind how many sins do ministers and Missionaries performe. You will by and by pay a visit to Mrs Robinson at Utti she expects you. Is Mrs Coffin a plimouthian too I do not know her. How is Mrs. Moerike? where does Plebst live how is he, stronger? Mrs and Miss Hodges have just come, they are in your room while he shall be down in the bangalow when he comes.

Now Adieu
 Yours J. Gundert



1My dear Papa!

Many thanks for your letter, I received yesterday evening. As I had rather short time I wrote but very little for Europa, but the next post, I will have made ready some letters. - Do you think Ostertag could be offended at some thing or other, that he does not write so very long time! - Today the Hodges will come; I pray the Lord to help me to walk so that H. may believe that I am nomore belonging to this world but His own poor Child, to whom He is so gracious to give what is wanted. Oh that I might be more humble and low of heart to see more how it is but pure grace how my own working and walking is nothing that only He can work all in all and through all. Write me again such refreshing letters! -

With a kiss
 your Marie

