 Calicut 25th J<une>* 1858

Dear Papa

Yesterday no letter came; but the weather is so wet and windy that the tapal can not go so quick. No news here all as usual. Convert better. Thompson paid a visit to Fritz and spoke again about the Malaylim books he had been ordered to have read at school.

The Hodges are at Ponany Boshart saw them there, they were very kind to him. Mrs. Robinson is not leaving this before some days perhaps one week more. In the word ________________ is it for ness or concerning that ________ is join? I now read and learn Malayalim as diligently as I can, but elas new words do not stick fast in my memory! Love to sister Hoch and family. How does the cold agree with you How do Rama and Ramoti by the by? Have they asked for worme clothes
 Yours J. Gundert



1My very dear papa

You know already that about a week ago _____________ my favorite girl at school left this, yesterday now she sent me a little letter written with pencil through one of those people that came to Calicut from Codakal, I was much rejoiced! -

We hope to get news from you today, as we did not receive any yesterday. 
Give much love from me to dear Mrs. Hoch and her little ones, whom I should like to see. Have you not had any rain at Coonoor? Here we have one moment hot and in the next there goes a great wind with rain, it is such a funy weather. I am rather a little funy myself, so easely moved and inconstant. But I believe surely that the Lord will make me more and more free from it, so that I may stay joyfully and ferme upon that rock which can never be moved though storm and waves of devil world and sin beat around it. What a wreched life would it be on this earth if we could not look with faith and hope upon the cross of our dear Saviour! -

With love your Child.

