Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coimb. 31 May 58
My dear wife

This evening your letters arrived with the enclosures. Best thanks. It is easy to answer when I have a letter before me. More difficult to shake one out of the sleeve. How strange that you now think me worse and want to come and help when I am better than ever, know in fact not if I have any bowels. I wrote you past things after they were over, and your imagination changes them into something present. My Dr could not visit me today having fever. I think of visiting him tomorrow. Saw Ward this evening and asked about his spiritual progress. I found much more than I expected - the wife in Engld is also pressing on and cheerful. 3 of their children, the eldest they hope are converted. I had a nice hour or two and concluded with prayer, he accompanied me back to the A.<ddis>* and seemed thankful for my speaking out. Today I got Boswell's invitation which had been lying at the bungalow for 3 weeks and tomorrow I think of moving into his house for the Hodges are coming on Wednesday morning and I see there is no nice accomodation for them tho' the A. press me to stop. - Grant has not yet passed through this and Rob. must wait for him, hence I doubt if I shall see Rob. for about Wednesday next week I think of moving on. Nothing of course is as yet settled. - I fear for Godd. if he is not off soon - what a weather to load Coffee in! His note to you quite cheered me, I half thought of sending it to the Stangers and ask them when we shall ever get such notes from them. When you see the Beans thank them also for their remembrance of me and for the interest they (she) take in Mary.

The mail I see is in and the children's letters may soon come. I also long for them particularly this time, but have no fear about them such as seems to prowl about you. The Lord will surely keep them and carry them through. Much love to Marie to whom I hope soon to answer - also to Fritz etc  Ever yours HGdt

