 1(12 Jan) [1858]

D. S.

Your letter of the 26. D. has come to hand thro' Mr H. soon after the arrival of the party from B. I might feel flattered by the favorable picture you draw of the virtues and excellences of my daughter, if its exaggerations did not suggest that you must have been in a state of youthful enthusiasm magnifying and distorting all you saw in her. But combining your expressions with the fact of your being her senior by many years I feel inclined to doubt your powers of discrimination and hope you will not think me offended if I tell you that you know not what you do. - If you were a man of thought you could never have sought an intimacy with a girl of barely 15 years a foreigner hardly acquainted with your language, who thus for various reasons was incapable of knowing more of you than your face and the sound of your voice. You could not have undertaken to win her love by sedulous and importune attentions, much less propose to marry her in the moment of landing without even consulting her parents. I should have no hesitation to characterize the whole of this proceeding as mean and unworthy of a man if as I said I did not consider you a thoughtless child of impulse. Seeing you are so very much like my own giddy child I do not look upon you as at all likely to direct her aright. I beg you therefore to give up all thought of my sanctioning such a baseless connection. If I had to think only of the bodily welfare of my child I could not permit her to marry within 2 or 3 years. - Before the arrival of my daughter I received by post a Kurrachee Newspaper addressed by you I suppose to Miss G. Mr Fitzgibb having already informed me of your doings I considered it my duty to return the paper. Your letter to her which Mr H. gave me unopened she shall never see. And I now ask you to give up all idea of communicating with the child. As she has never mentioned your name to me I shall also avoid the subject and trust that thro' the restored intercourse with her parents, a child's love may yet spring up and gradually supplant those more exciting affections which you have so prematurely tried to provoke in her. I therefore beseech you not to unsettle her mind a second time by writing - and let our correspondence end with this

 I remain Yours faithfully
 H.G.




1To Dr Gundert -.

 <26 Decb 57>*
Dear Sir.

I trust my apology may be accepted for addressing you (a stranger save in name) on a subject in which my own happiness is involved and likewise one, in which one whom I know is very dear to you, is interested. - 
It happened that I was a fellow passenger to Bombay with a young lady with whom congeniality of sentiments and similarity of tastes for study frequently brought me in contact, and insensibly and imperceptibly I found myself more and more influenced by her kindness and purity of heart, her good disposition, and intelligence; I discovered that she had been well educated and trained to forego all those idle and frivolous pursuits which are so mixed up with the education of the ladies of my own Country - I found in her a deep reverence for the truths of our holy religion. And that our thoughts, ideas and sentiments reechoed and responded to each other - Can you be surprised then Sir, that a friendship should have arisen which has resulted in a far more tender feeling? I found it reciprocal. 
On reaching Bombay the pain of separation seemed so poignant that I offerred her marriage through her protector - that gentleman referred me to yourself and I now ask if you will consent to our Union for the young lady in question is your dearly beloved daughter -

It is true I am her senior by many years but it is that which has enabled me to offer her a position which she is worthy of - I believe that blessed with a wife combining all the virtues Miss Gundert possesses, we should be a mutual support to each other in our passage through this vale of tears towards that heavenly bourne we all aspire to reach, and I have every confidence that we should be happy one with the other, and, whilst assuring you that she would be well provided for whilst I was living, I should mention that she would be well provided for should she outlive me - she would become possessed of R. 10.000 or more on my death and would succeed to my landed and household property in England on the proceeds of which my only parent, a mother, is now with her daughters living.

I am at present an Assistant Collector in Sinde on a stipend of 500 Rs a month and I have hopes of promotion hereafter - I have desired the Revd Mr Hauff to present this to you to whose kind intercession on my behalf I rely and awaiting a reply Believe me with every assurance of respect 
 Yours most faithfully
 John W Barns

Kurrachee Sinde
26th December 1857

P.S. I am naturally most anxious to hear of Miss Gundert's safe return to her parents and I beg the favor of your permitting her to communicate the same to me
 J.W.B.




1To the Revd H. Hauff

Dear Sir,

According to your recommendation I now beg to enclose a letter (open for your perusal) to address of Dr Gundert and I shall feel obliged by your kindly presenting it to him and likewise permitting Miss Gundert to peruse it when you receive it - I trust by God's blessing she and your family and Mr Finckh may reach your destination in health and safety - I should much have liked to have spent my Christmas day at Kurrachee but I very much fear we shall not arrive there until the evening of that day or on the following morning

We have a very fine Church at Kurrachee and I hope to be stationed there for some time

I trust I may calculate on your good offices and intercession with Dr Gundert for I cannot but think that you must know I am much attached to Miss G. And I believe you have reason to know that it is reciprocal - I have felt very sad at parting from one I have loved so well and may I beg of you to offer to Miss G. my kindest and best regards and to present my respects to your own good lady and believe me to remain
____________________________________________Dear Sir,
 Yours sincerely
 John W Barns

Kurrachee Sinde
26 Decr 1857.

P.S. I shall feel grateful by your acknowledging receipt of this that I may know it has come safe to hand.
 J.W.B.

P.S. Nr 2. I enclose a note to Miss Gundert's address - I trust to your honor either to deliver it to her for perusal or to destroy it.  J.W.B.

