 <Palghat>* 23. May. <58>*

My dear Marie,

I am glad you think of the Lord Supper. When you have the appetite then you are on the way to have a right to it. But you seem still to have some curious notions about being made thorough holy one day or other. This you must not expect says Luther, bis man mit Schaufeln drüber herfährt - nehmlich über den Leib der Sünde. It is of course possible to desire nothing but holiness as far as our real volitions (Willensbestrebungen) go, but we shall stop far from carrying them up, even in the best case, and must learn to use this our misery for the purpose of getting thoroughly sick of this present state of things, the evil siŠcle or Weltzeit in which we are banned. We cannot fly beyond it but by faith and hope and the old fellow remains still within its grasp. Do you now sometimes think of your first Indian notions and expectations. I felt for you when in all your letters home I saw something of your Schimmele, or hints of other little horses and hobbies which we all like to ride. For I knew in this you would be disappointed - worldly greatness is not for us and our caste of people. We shall perhaps never be poor, but always of a certain low sort, and the Spirit must bring you to say in earnest: we will no more go on horses no more soar high, will be content with little and learn to be faithful in little things, - the prophets remark that such is the language of Israel when repenting. I wish you to ride, but not to feel as on the high horse: for when it comes to a tumble you may know the feeling of envy one has for humble quiet footpassengers. Through the narrow gate we will crouch and creep, not jump over it. One day teaches the other.

 A Dieu
 Your Papa

