 Coonoor 16 Jun 58

My dear wife

Yesterday early the bandy with Rama and horse went off. I breakfasted with Str.<obel>* wrote letters home, dined with Ward, when Str. was rather pleased to find Company that may help to occupy him after my departure returned about 6 PM and got off after 7. In 11 1/2 hours reached Metapaliam by bandy, found Moerike and Manjil all ready, was borne halfway and rode the Ghaut up with Moerike, arrived at Hoch's 11 1/2 A.M. found here Plebst and Metz, so we had a nice sort of greeting, plenty reminiscences of past months and years. Yours of the 14th was ready for me. Also the letters for Europe have arrived and shall go off tomorrow. I am glad you sent something to Mrs Leslie I have not yet found anything for him, but keep it in mind. - Of Marie's ear Dr Cornish thinks that with an earspeculum it may be found out what is the matter with it and that a proper insertion of some cautchouk might enable her even to hear again with that ear. He does not think that her stay in this country is more precarious on this account, on the contrary supposes she might go on here in a more equable enjoyment of health than at home. - I hope Domingo will soon bring this to you. I do not find it at all cold here.

Mrs Hoch went to a picnic with the children shortly after my arrival She looks well enough, also the little ones except the girl who is certainly tender and looks as if she had suffered. Now farewell for a day. If I can I shall write tomorrow again.

Grace be with you all
 Yours HG

