Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Palgh 23d May evening <58>*
My dear wife

It makes me think you quite near to get a letter from you written or finished only yesterday morning. So I will write once more. - I wonder why the letters of Fritz didn't come - the Mercury's arrived - I miss especially the returns from Alattoor and that rogue Hoogewerf of Malapuram or Trevandram. Strobel will however send them on at once. I heard nothing of young Gomptz (swimmed? swam to shore) - As you ask so closely, I will just say, that I had last week some of my worst days since we left Cochin. I therefore had the original Cochin pills made up again, and took one yesterday evening with an enema, this did wonders and stopped the discharge, in which there had been again blood. But I see clearly that I could not have stood the Monsoon any where. Today is a fine day and I am quite revived again - Addis has written kindly - hopes good neighbourship and trusts Str. will keep out the Leipzig friends, who still poison his congregations. - Str. has a servant instead of Paul, with whom nothing could be done, his wife will leave him, she says that in secret he drank every night at Cannanore already and starved her regularly - write me also what advances you paid to the 2 servts. You know that the grasscutter returned on acct of a bad foot from Codacal, having only received 3 Annas from Rama.

I shall tomorrow early have a winecanjee, pass noon at the bungalow in the middle and then go on to reach Coimb. about nightfall. Obrien has had a son today, and is rejoiced, all went well, but his approaching departure he feels rather keenly. Now farewell and believe that I am in the best hands and get all I want
 Yours H Gdt
