Mrs Gundert, Calicut

 Coonoor 29 June 58
My dear wife

You ask about my leave? to the end of August I hope please God to enter your gate and mount your steps on the 31st, and I dare say I may jump up 2 or 3 of them without your recognizing the old slowfooted man that left you in May. - Nothing as yet about Mrs Groves except that she will come to this place having with Mrs Coffin and other guests taken Col. Woodfall's house for a whole month. So long then she intends to be our neighbour. She evidently talks still much about Plymouthism, baptism etc required her daughter to absent herself from her own child's baptism (performed by Moerike) and called it a sin to be present on such an occasion etc. - Tomorrow our first Wednesday meeting is to take place. Hoch will go to Ootacamund to preach there about the same time. Mrs Francis came this evening to return my visit. But I was unhappily out on the Kaity road to accompany Moerike home. Mrs Hoch had then rather a dry meeting with the visitor, both being unknown to each other. Moer. had seen Abrah the convert (of Jogatore, on the Kateri road), found only the children, and consulted with us about steps to help him in his present troubles. For the Badagas shun all intercourse with him and wish to drive even his brother who still helps him a little, from the closer neighbourhood. Also concerning the land he tills and the taxes there are disputes and new intrigues since the departure of the old Collector Thomas who, every body knew, would not allow him to be wronged on account of his conversion. Moer. feels deeply for him, perhaps too much so, as there are many ways in which God may accomplish the good man's deliverance. Of Kittel Moer. reports that he is very much cast down, disgusted with his work, and difficult to deal with. Plebst seems to have most access to him, and devotes himself to his service. But the poor fellow has not yet learned to think really lowly of himself, and therefore faith is to him a heavy task. - On the 3d I ought to have your letters for Europe, so you ought to try your hand at them without delay.
Farewell. Grace be with you
 Your HG

