 Calicut 30th March <58>*

Dear Papa

Accept sincere thanks for yours second, I was thankful for God s goodness to you in having provided so mercifully for your reception and inclined the Dr so well toward you. He shall not lose his reward!

Before your letter came I had been comforted and strengthened by the Lord in reading the 2d in the Phil. and John XIII 31,32

When our Lord saw suffrings and death very near he knew that the father was glorified in Him, and He in the father throgh what was to come. To know our dear Lord in his suffrings and death is life indeed Oh for a mind like the Lord never mind what a depth of death and suffrings if only our God and Lord is Glorified by us in it Thanks and praise to God for his teaching me by that precious word. Til yesterday I had not taken your sickness in a right mind so I became very nervous and miserable; but the Lord in his merci has changed darkness in to light. Let only a real blessing and abundance of life be given us then cross is welcome. The precious blood of Jesus washes my rebellion and displeasure at this time about your sickness. Oh for Jesus mind who humbled himself until the death of the cross becoming a servant to all!

May you have a rich blessing and comforts by which you may help and comfort others!

As you will have to stay longer there I think you will be glad of getting the Inspector s letter so I send it. Others about business and Madras I keep, you must have rest and see nothing of those letters about business. Richter and the writer were together yesterday to finish what was began. To day Plebst and L go. L<echler>* is nice, his explanation of yesterday evening I liked He sends you plenty love and invites you to go for a change to his house. Now with love
 Yours Julie Gundert

Here all as usual; much sickness around us; but by grace preserved At Telli much small pox one of the boys died

Plebst hopes to see you on the hills for I hope too that you will go there for 2 monthes

