 Calicut 11th July 58

Dear Papa

Mr and Mrs Grant with their neveu Campbell paid back their visit; nothing as yet to let one judge of their inward life. Mrs Hodges has always so much to talk that there is but little room left for others, as they are old acquantances of course. I kept silence. Mr Cam.<pbell>* who sat near Convert told him that he had seen Hebich in his morning walks; but had not heard him preach! Hodges has come. He looks very red and his eyes turning curiously if he was not a christian one would suspect soberness or rather want of it. Yesterday we had no letter from you perhaps your having gone to Otti is the cause of the delay ore the rain which falen abondantly these days Yesterday your remaining books from Madras were delivered to Mr Thompson.

We have every sunday since the Hodges are here a meeting at 12 0 cl Convert has prayer and reads a sermon. As it is time for it I say Adieu. May you have a good sunday in Him our head who filleth all in all. Fritz preached according to the text Behold I come quickly my reward is with me. 
Does Paul mean that he knows no sin or wrong in him in the IV <I>* Cor 4,<3>*

Had self so fully died that Christ alone lived in him? Thanks to God that He killeth daily self. though now and then I grieve that so little of self is destroyed I have much reason to praise and thank for His daily labour to become Lord and Master alone in me

With love to all
 Yours J. Gundert

Vedamutu sends you love and desires to hear much about about you 
