 Calicut 7th Februar 58

Dear Papa

Many thanks for yours of the 4th received yesterday. I am glad to hear Rama is careful and that all went on well. As the letter of Mrs B has very little news I keept it for it would other wise cost 1 as. I might have sent them the other day with the other papers; but I thought they were old letters returned from Mercara. Mr and Mrs Wells paid a visit yesterday evening, Mrs Rogers came too. still very dark in her view of salvation pleased with her masters! The Lawsons* go often to spend days there. No news here Convert and Lauffer were invited to dinner at Lowson where they met Mr Thompson and his two pupils the Schmid, We are thank God well and wish you a good sunday One week more and we shall D.V. look for your return. With love
 Yours J. Gundert



1My very dear father!

Now it is already eight days since you have left us, indead the time seams much longer to me, happy I am to hope that in eight days more you will have joined us. Mrs Diez left us last saturday and I take now my lessons by the Catechist's wife, whom I like much and I give her a little English lessons, but I fear to be no good teacher. Till now all went good and I like Calicut more and more, though I find one day like the other like one egg ressembles to the other, but I like them, they are not verleidet to me; also I am still in the beginning of being here. And when you have come back it will be still more agr‚able. Now farewell dear papa! With a warm kiss I am  yours Mary.

