 Mang 5 Jan. <58>*

My dear wife

Today returning from Carcal one of your letters - already mislaid, so great is the confusion from a cartload of books from the Director. Bire very useless, never to be had when wanted, and misunderstandg continually. So your orders are a real botheration, for how I am to do all this and my office work too, and return soon to Cal. is a perfect mystery to me. Grapes etc had been bought, but in smaller quantity - how could I know you wanted so many mounds. I am sorry for it, but I can't help it, if I have no time I just forget all these after orders and stick to the paper you gave me, on which I try to note what you write in the letters, but may forget much that is not plainly stated

From the 2d letter just received I have sent a note to Kindersley made out another for Miss and showed the rest to Pfl. I hope the needful is done. 
The Panchatantr is the only Sanscr. book I used at Calicut and must be quite above others. The title is in Latin

Today I got at last news of Marie but in a roundabout way. Mr Fitzgibbon came here who had accompanied the party in both steamers from Marseilles - and he says that Mary is very nice and clever and amusing, and - and - has already been asked for by a Bombay Engr, an Officer that had to go off to Scind*, Barnes (or Burts?) <Barnes>*. Mr Hauff is a very steady man and said, it could not be, that is that he couldn't exactly send her to the North instead of South and that therefore the parents most have a voice in the matter. Is n't this truly considerate? So I am comforted that she is indeed a girl that will not long remain upon our hands. She talks Engl. pretty well it seems, whereas the Hauffs could hardly get on with it, of Mr Finkh very little was observed. Miss Isenberg is also very nice and appears to have very proper notions, which means probably being religious. The Fitzg.'s might have brought Mary down with them if they had thought of it. He is a very respectable man that has risen from the ranks, and is interested in Missions. You know that he formerly sent a donation from his plantation near the Mukh, and you may now tell Fritz and Laufer that he has paid his furnitures. He is also brother in law of that Morris who was here in Oct, and strange to say Fritzg has already met Morris in Engl - so rapid were the journeys of both.

He evidently thinks Mr B. a good party - 500 Rs per mensem now, and 150 widow's pension - about his conversion there is of course some doubt, but a very nice man he is never the less. M. he describes as very healthy, and somewhat inclined to joke and laugh the whole day. So you see we have got something to pray for from the very beginning. Tomorrow evening I hope to leave for Casergode but intend to spend there merely one day and be back the next night. At Carcal it was fearfully hot - inland - and no seabreeze. The school does not promise to be very splendid still it may live. The RCath's always press me to come to theirs: they have invited that man Baptiste to replace Fitzgerald.

Now farewell. In great haste
 Yours HG

