 Calicut 5th July 58

Dear Papa

Many thanks for yours of the 2d Mrs Hodges says that Mrs Groves suffers a great deal having her veins so full that the Dr was in fear for her life in care of hemorragie she can scarcely move her legs. You will see her and may the Lord give you words of comforts for her, for she is much troubled has not yet been able to take quietly the story of Jessie <(?)>*. Mrs Hod did not know of a second match broken, she had but heard that the Postmaster at Madras who has 700 a month was very attentive to her and one suspected that perhaps an offer might be made the girl is continually with her father for she prefers him to Mama which is to me a bad sign of her. I like you love en passant our visitors Madame is still grand and wise I think. 
Poor Chinappen how many of those we have known have turned out bad. What a grace to love truth and light for with it God carrys us in His ways. I do not remember the Mrs Haynes you mention, but Fritz does. According to Ostertag's letter our two boys enterance in the mission was still uncertain! God will carry on His will with them I believe though I have felt some uneasy before

Mr Fritz does not say that he has showed your letters about or of Strobel to anyone; He thinks that Sauvain and <Chr>* Muller are glad to find any occasion against Strobel to prove Hebich that they are not alone against him; However I think that here their is not a free spirit towards Stroble who it is true some times shows a changable mind, for: Once he wrote to Fritz how glad and edified he had been in using the prayer book at the Lord supper, while before he had spoken much against it.

As Mrs. Hodges is going to pay a visit to Mrs. Grant I go along, so Adieu  Your J. Gundert

