<George O'Brien, Catechist, Mission House, Palghat, stam...>1 
 Coonoor 29 June 58
My dear Marie

Your dream must have been very refreshing after your selfreproaches about the way you felt at Stuttg towards Herm. You may at least see from it that God can put things aright in a moment, whilst we call on him, or even before we cry to Him. You could not mend matters from a distance within less than 3 months, so as to feel that all is now set to rights; but He can both do it and give you the certainty of its being done, without a moment's delay. Therefore it is now your privilege to feel easy and happy under His government.

You asked me once what I thought about aunt Emma. I have thought about it, but cannot write so freely as you. The fact is I donot like much to decide such questions, without a certain impulse that tells me I have some business to do so. Different persons are led in so very different ways, and I am so little occupied with their peculiarities that I have hardly a right to judge them from an immense distance - I can quite believe that the root of the matter is in her, though I should not like her to remain so little developped in Christian knowledge, as she appears sometimes to me. I wish I did pray more for her, then I would also perhaps have a more distinct impression of her real state. I wrote to her regarding her suggestion of writing to Fritz <Stäfa>*, that I could not well begin such a correspondence without feeling strongly moved to it, as God has so many means for influencing the most difficult characters, whereas one from a distance may poke in his nose without a vocation and do more harm than good. The real fact is we are only to do our duty, every one in his sphere, which God may enlarge or contract as and when He likes, and none has a right to hope much from his interference except where his way is pointed out to him. Hence my correspdce with my children may now and then have been of use in our Lord's ways; my path was clear: but I could not even write to my brother Ludwig when he was thought to be converted, as I felt I must wait for a better opening. But as I say I wish I had prayed more in all such cases: who knows what power and what callings I might have received in such a case. Oh that we were better fellow workers of His, always listening for his orders and ready to march at a moment's warning.

I am glad to hear you take more pleasure and find more enjoyment in playing the Harmonium. I also play daily a little at least on Mrs Hodges' piano that stands in my room. Moerike tells me that Mrs Burk before her death seems to have fully taken hold of Christ; it appears she had not given full evidence of this as long as her daughter lived with her. Padre's wives like old Mrs Hebich fancy sometimes they are saved by their marriage, as Mr. Hebich told the Bishop's lady to warn her

Now farewell You know the bold hand that wrote the address?
 Your Papa

