Dr H. Gundert, Coonoor. Stamped

 Calicut first July 1858
Dear Papa

Yours of last sunday came to hand yesterday. Thanks to God for His mercy and love to you in every way. May He bless you abondantly with the brethren and with those who may be brought nigh in the meetings or in any other way. 
I felt my short comings yesterday in hearing of the revival in America. Convert read loud the Christian herald, which shows that great work there. how beautiful and wonderful, I wish we could hear of our poor brothers there having also been turned to life, what a change for the better if dear Loudvig was sent back converted to his family! Convert was himself rather moved in reading about it; Much prayers I believe are offered for some similar blessings on our dead contry.

We paid a visit to Mrs R.<obinson>* but saw very little of her as there were Mrs. Willams and the Dr. besides she was still much occupied with packing, heard nothing of Mrs. Grant. We have had many fine days today thunders and rain.

From Mr Goddard, good news from Bombay, had much joy with his brother who was ill; saith nothing about the poor Gompertz of whom I would I would have liked to hear! He took his passage for the 4th of July; wrote but a few lines because he was obliged to attend his brother who required him constantly. You shall get his note by next bookpost. Now with love to the dear Hochs and friends
 Yours J. Gundert.

Marie can write better on piety than I like, that is, it looks so fine in words; but I fear it is not altogether so in reality, she is not aware or does not feel that there is an exageration; for spiritual life is not to my eys making such progress Pray for her

