 Palghat 2 Sept 58

My dear wife

The railroad must be already at work for this evening on returning from Alattoor I found yours of the 2d, evidently written only a few hours ago. If it is so I shall try and return the same way to you and won't it be a surprise. - I went this morning by Manjil and returned so, found now Ram pretty well and recovering. But it will not do taking him another time to the hills.

Much about the Sauv's case I do not understand - but can wait till I hear it explained. God will make it all plain in time and I think in a short time. You have no idea what I felt when I last visited Chir. from Mang. nearly to the extent of asking myself should we not at once return there. But I see too clearly God's hand in our further movements since then to think of offering myself for it The Newspapers will shew you that I have a new duty entrusted to me, to help in the examinations of the uncovenanted servants of Govt. Arb. has slipped the Rev. in before my name, which may be a pleasure to you. As for me I can truly say I find less and less within me of qualities to be revered, and tho' the office is worthy of all reverence I wish it was that and not the man which gets the name. - I write today to Samuel and tomorrow to Herm. Committee etc therefore my time will be short. I am glad Marie wrote to Mr Heb. he will just now be able to read a short letter - not on business - with real relish.

Dixon may have had later news than we via Coorg. I am sorry it is the Church Mission that takes it but like this much better than any other arrangement outside of Basle. If you have read Pauline's letter to me you will see that she also suffers under the protracted uncertainty and may the Lord now give her joy in the new connection.

I shall have to visit the Collector Child. If I can I will write once more on my way, but would not promise it for sure. - I hear that Strobel writes for another brother, who will I think be given him in time. This station <Palgh>* ought to be commenced in full earnest for it looks to me very promising and Str. is likely to be a real help to a new brother. Obr will be greatly missed here at first but God knows what is good for us all. Now farewell

The Lord keep you all with
 your HGdt

