Frau Dr Gundert, Calw, Württemberg

 Calw/ Basel 26 June <64>*
Dear Julie

In Stuttg I wrote a short note which I took in person to Mühlacker that it be safely delivered on Saturday morning. But then there was no Badish post, you will therefore have got it only in the evening. At Pfzh I saw David's friend who will have given my Selam. Miss. Schlochow accompanied me from Stuttg at Mühlacker Müller and other friends joined. I greeted also Blumhardt who had been at Graefenhausen. Burk's from Echterdingen were also of the Company. I had a nice conversation with Roth who is now engaged with a Miss Rein and leaves for India. Arrived here 5.20. walked in with Bunz. The news of the king's death I had heard at Stuttg early in the morning. Bz regretted not to see all the wonderful incidents of the change of the crown at Stuttg. The chief guest is Pastor Roth of Tiflis who had been 32 years in Grusia and was permitted before leaving the Caucasus to baptize the first Tatargirl in those parts. He seeks for a successor, having very weak eyes

26 Sunday went early to the Kinderhaus, saw Meuret and the boys. Fried must know that I gave Joh Müller his letter, and that he as well as his brother look well and comforted. Mohr I asked about a letter for David. He had given one long ago to Mrs Staelin, who perhaps forgot to send it. Sam Diez had forgotten all Malayalam, but remembered the fruits eaten; he has something wicked about him. Jacob Ammann is quite gone wrong, - he will give up all study, and yet become a Missionary, peasant or farmer. He hates now all learning, and has no mind for doing anything, yet reveres his father's memory and will pray and read with apparent devotion, that the Lord make him a right and proper servant of His. Ostertag visited me during church time, excused his want of merks in transactions with the Committee that concerned my writing business, and found that he had to ask my pardon. He was quite soft and tender; so we got over that chapter in no time and talked of other stories - the sale of Gundeldingen, which 4 Basle gentlemen bought to parcel it amongst them, the purchase of Sandon's house opposite the Mission palace so as to be nearer to the business. His heart is very much relieved since he had a sort of attack on the brain before leaving Vernex, but his neck is swollen immensely on both sides, which looks awkward whilst the face shows really a return of health. With Mrs' health everything seems to go better than before, I shall dine with them today. Now I visited Mrs Geigy and had a good half hour with her, I shall try and get her to keep company with Mrs Reiff, a nice young lady in the Mission house. After noon I had the St Martin's meeting about John X,16. Then we went to Christ Sarasin's Garden. On the way I saw again Emily Seeger, Mrs Scheffel etc also Mrs Buser and her daughter who invited me to come there. I shall rather delay the visit till I hear something definite. Of Mr Holzach I hear rather unfavorable reports, shall try and see Emily Steudel. Chaplain Street 1834 at Cannanore met me in the way and talked a little about every body, Strange appears to come right again, he says. Elisabeth Mckay goes as teacher to Königsfeld. Such are the news I remember. The brethren that are to go out will start on the 1st of August. Any thing for Samuel ought to be sent early in July through Mr. Weitbrecht. Love to all in the house Plenty Selams from many people whom I do not well remember and shall have forgotten completely when I return
 Your H.
