 Calw 31 October 1864

Dearest Emma

Many thanks for your last letter I was glad to hear something about the poor house and Hanna the house mother. I thought she was one of the best women in the congregation, her prayers did refresh me every time I went in the sick house, I remember well the two crippels, who used to lament pretty much, there was an other woman a leprous she had no finger or scarsly any bit remaining is she still alive? The poor house here reminds pretty much of the one at Mang. but the people were more treatable there than here; most of them drink so much that they are like beasts. Please give my love to all those there who remember me but especially to Hanna and her family she has no children I know; but adopted ones I think, there are many other women I would like to salute especially; but I forgot their Names. A Ruth whose husband was servant with English, what is she doing. Elisabeth of the blind man I remember well, she was rather nice, only troubled about her son. Give my love please to the women of Kalpane are their Children comming to school with you for work I mean. So you are to lose Mr and Mrs Haller! may it not be to his ruin, give them my love and to all the Sisters who remember me. I was very sorry to hear your dear partner had been unwell; has he been much cast down? I hope he is again well and can rejoice in his Lord Mr Wöhrner was here yesterday for a few hours, he is still some what depressed; but loocks strong and well he came from Nagold where he spends some weeks writing the life of Dr Barth.

Dear Sister I hope you are happy in the Lord and have joy in the portion of the work He has given you, depending fully on Him and taking continually from His fulness Grace for Grace, this secret we have have to learn again and again till we in some measure can say after Paul I live not; but Christ lives in me.

I had much pleasure in Stutgart when I spent there some days in October as I accompanied David who is with Mr Steinkopf. I rejoice that he is with such a family so well taken care of, he likes to be there, he writes often to us. All the news here Marie or papa write you I doubt not. people here who knew you ask after you. Marie Wöhrle's marriage is to take place next thursday she is very nice and the people say that the perle of Calw is going away! her mother feels it deeply, it will be very hard for her, less comfort than your dear Mother who says I gave my daughter to the Lord and is quite happy.

Adieu dear brother and sister
 yours J.G

1Wenn Mama von Georg's Kränkeln hört, wundert sie sich halb warum sie ihr Töchterlein fortließ und sagt dann sich zum Trost: nun man muß halt denken es sei im Glauben geschehen.
