 <16 May 64>*
Dear Marie

Althoug we have not heard from you I will write you a few lines, yesterday and to day I have been looking anxiously for a letter from Paul; but in vain! I feel deeply grieved about him.

Frederic and David are going on nicely, of course Frederic might be livelier; I trust it will come to some thing real, both are going very regularly to the Jungling Verrein even Alexander Assenheimer goes with David, so 6 of the confirmanden have joined the verrein. Saturday came a friend of Jette to see papa Mr König he left us on Sunday after noon on the same evening came the Hoch who left us this morning tuesday. She was nice and aimiable, the people liked his speach in Stamheim. it was exceedingly full half of the people were obliged to stay out side of the church. Papa is today very tired after two heavy days Sunday at Hirsau preaching Kinderlehr Stunde afterward jungling Verrein Monday morning again preaching at Hirsau after noon Kinder questioning at Stamheim, one liked him much. I did not hear him for I was also sitting out side and could not bear any longer the heat of the Sun so I went in the house.

The brother of Maria Essig has just paid a visit he is Bräutigam with a widow here who has 3 children 12 years older than himself, her first husband was a Baker and the house belongs to her so his sister with her husband made up the thing quickly for she has vermögen as Maria says. Apropos after you have returned we should have a wash, can I ask the washer women for the first week of June at the end of it? it is not that I wish you to return sooner than you had intended. I say so only that I may speak with the women about it? I have a bad finger I cannot sew, The letter of Emma was very nice and gave us much joy. We are very glad to hear that dear Mama has so much joy with her two sons.

Miss Seger has just been here she said you have a chatar; but better than you have been you rather take care and not go out too much so long you are not well it is very hot one perspire and catches cold sooner. Adieu dear Marie I wish you joy and happiness in the Lord

 Love to all
 Yours. J. Gundert

Your last of 16th has just come for which hearty thanks and hearty kisses dear Marie. again no news from P!
 love to all,
 Yours very affectly
 Julie G.
