 Calw 26th January 69
Dearest Marie -

To day we had news of your Christmas, the joy of Theodor and all his little cheating about the goodly, that the bad Theodor can disapear and a good dear one come again reminds me of Paul when he was small, he could shake off the black dog which had been sitting on him and say there it runs away and was then very good and amiable, as often as he was cross or naughty one had only to say the black dog sits again on Paul, and then it became soon better. I am much grieved to hear that dear Charles is so very poorly. I trust that your stay at Kotry will have done him good. along with the cool season you have now. here it is very cold since 8 days we have 15 degrees no snow so that one feareth for the fields. Our neighbour Mr Frommer baker got ill on Friday and died yesterday, three days ill mostly in delirium, his widow is melancholic since several years, was several times by the Sekendorf where she became better; but the illness returned every time after being at home for some times.

It would of course be nice if you could see the Plebst; they will have been at Mangalore but a short time I am sorry for our dear Frederic. The young Buhl from here is going to Mangalore as merchant for the mission. Ansel is going to Africa

this morning came a long letter from Marie Monnard. most hearty love to you, full of sympathy to all of you, I trust we shall soon hear better account of dear Charles health

 With a kiss to all of you
 Your JG

love to Margaret
