 <7 April 69>*
Dearest Frederic

I must intertain you of our wash; This morning at 7 we went with four baskets full of wash to the Bozenhart at two o clock was the wash finished that is brought home to be hung up. if it had been washd at home it would have taken two days three women per day, the machine for a day costs two fls. no wood is wanted it is heated by steam, we were four at work and rather hard work during the 6 hours but then it is over, and much cheaper then at home, and the clothes much less spoiled or torn then at home. At Mangalore where so many brether are to gether it would be of a great profit to get a wash machine; but now enough. last sunday we got a letter from Sami but not a word from you or about you, it went hard in heart; yea was nothing from Eddy, of course we must now accustom ourselves to hear but every two weeks it is natural as you also from us, but we will be contented and trust our Lord, that He will bless and keep you though we dont hear it from you, We have surely a good Lord who does always better than we trust Him. Could we but believe much we should also see and experience much from Him. Paul feeds on the word of life, his prayers and speaches are almost from the bibel, one feels that the word lives or abides in him. May the Lord give you out of His fulness grace for grace. Jettle the two Louise send you love. The old papa Wirz with his wife have been ill, I have visited they like to hear from you and send you all hearty love. I with a tender kiss remain
 yours JG.
