 Calw 19th May 1869
 <In Mt. Clemens 7. Juny.>*
Dear Christine

I thank you heartily for you wellcome letter, I am glad to hear that the few little things which we did send you did please you and are useful. I am also much pleased to hear that Julia and Marie have been made so happy thereby, and caused such a nice letter from Julia to us, her Grandpapa will certainly answer it and I thank her much for it also our dear Mariele. 
These days our dear Paul and David are with us, yesterday <Pfingstmontag 17 May>* Paul preached here, God gave him grace to witness of His great love shown to us in His son, and of the great sin of the world, which is unbelief. how little does one care about faith, every one fancies that he believes, and at last it will be found that it is not the real faith, We should ask often what is faith? have I the living faith in God, the faith which overcometh the world and sin, such faith that we are loved, that the Lord has taken upon Him our sins and crucified them in His flesh on the cross enabels us to love Him in return who has loved us first and how loved? we comprehand little such love and believe it faintly, could we really know it and believe it it would fill us with joy and thankfulness. and our lives would be a continual praise; His love burning in us would quench all other love, for the world and the things of this world, Is it not dear Child that if we try ourself we find that we love husband, children, and many other things less worthy then man and children more than the Lord? though He has said, "he who loves father mother man wife children more than me is not worthy of me, The Lord must be the first and the dearest to us, and with a good conscience we must be able to say He is my life my All, my delight is in Him who loves me with an Eternal pure love. This I wish for me and for you my dear daughter that we so know Him and His love which drives away all fears, there is then, but peace and joy, because faith enabels us to overcome all hope shall not be confounded because the love of God is given us,
With a tender kiss to you to yours with hearty love
 Yours J.G.
