 Calw 28th Nov 1869
My dear Children <Marie>*

I would like to see and hear how this birthday of dear Charles is begining and finishing I wish him joy and peace in the holy spirit, faith in Jesus to overcome all doubts and temptations, full assurance of Eternal life and for the body a quiet and easy season, And you dear Marie such sight and assurance of the love of God in your trials that all other may appear small in comparaison. May you by faith seize the promises and hold them fast when all other is vanishing away He the Lord Himself remains and sustains you when the heart is braking and full of heaviness. look to the Lord alone who feels with you more than any creature can, surely He will say I am He, peace, peace; throw all your cares upon Him for He cares for you and yours, to do this is the only way to poscess the peace which passes all understanding. If you know anything which would give joy or please dear Charles buy it please on papas account, when I asked him what do you send to Charles? he said I really do not know what one could sent him, monney perhaps, so dear Marie buy freely what you like on papas name.

I am thank God pretty well and you? Do you also care for your health? You might get a diaconise to watch at night that you may rest.

Jettle sends best love and best wishes with the words here inclosed which she drew for dear Charles. She will have 6 shirts made for Theodor Christmas. She sends him hearty love I too, and kisses to dear baby who does not suffer too much I hope by the vaccination. We long of course to hear all about you and though it should be but a few lines we shall always be thankful,

Much love to dear Mrs. Isenberg to Jetthen to Albert to all our peopel 
With true love and sympathy
 Yours affectly
 J.G.
