 Calw 15 </20>*th January /69
 <In Mt. Clemens 11. Febr. 69>*
My dear children,

Your last of 20 Dec has given me great joy, because I see that your wish is but to do the will of the Lord, to Him be praise for such grace in you, comfort, money, honour, you do not seek, but to do your Lords will, Our God will lead you we have no doubt, and perhaps these days you are much occupied, about mouving from a place to an other, if the Lord has called you to Cleavland He will help you for the farewell, for the journey, and above all that which is still more importent, make you a blessing for the new congregation which has been so neglected, the Lord has perhaps there a great peopel or at least some souls who are to be saved. See that you tell after Paul daily I will know nothing but Christ crucified, yea dear son Him alone, the time is short let us witness of Him daily by preaching, deeds and words, He honours those who honour Him. The more unbelief and darkness suround us the more are we to blow the trumpet, calling sinners to repentance and helping the bride to meet her bridegroom who is at the door; but many christians will not believe it, It is good for us to look for His coming and call loud to those who sleep. Dear son we are with you in the spirit and whether you have to go or stay, the Lord shall use you for His work which is a great honour making you a smell of life unto life for many being not ashamed of the cross of Christ, Adieu dear children a kiss to you four. Julia Marile
 Yours JG.


 20th

As a dear letter from you has come since I wrote I will add still one line to thank the Lord for His unspeakabel great grace to you, you are His and He is yours, what have we more to wish? Mama and the children shall also one day say I am the Lords Him alone will I follow. that s the greatest joy and hapiness one can have. As John who had no greater joy than to hear that his children walked in the truth.

I have just heard that there will be an opportunity to America in Februar, we talked what might be the right thing to send you; we would like to send to each of you some thing; but the paquet must not be too big, the first would be a fine black coat for you, if made a little larger and longer than for Frederic it will fitt you well I trust, we may perhaps also send something through Francis Dubois who is to come; but when we do not know. As I fear to make the letter too heavy, I will say Adieu with a tender kiss to each of you
 Yours J.G.
