 Calw 25th April 1869
Dearest Marie

The whole last week we were cleaning and we have still for two days; the third wednesday is sitzung. Your room has been made green again and becomes the fine best Gastroom the old one shall be for our boys and other. We are expecting a letter from you today, though dear Ch. is better we are nevertheless some what uneasy and looking out for news. it is the same about Frederic till he be accustomed to the climat. however our cares and uneasyness do not help, on the Lord we must look and believe, become every day quieter and silent, trusting our Lord and distrusting us with all our feeling and aprehension, all our understanding wisdom, and imagination, thats a long and hard lesson which however must be learnt, till at last I self does not gilt <gelten>* any more, but God and His holy will. then is heaven already partly on earth for us.

Today papa has a mission Stundy in Church, the two next sunday absent in Maulbron and Canstat. the Mission feast is on the 6th We expect the Plebsts for it with Mama perhaps. The Inspector comes, too.

I am specially glad that Mrs Shirt is converted or at least seeks, may God bless you together, for your own selves and the work, I hope that Jacob gives you joy. and that God will drow more souls to His son. Your time is aproching we think of you, and trust our dear Lord who will help you through. He has done all well till now, let us only learn to humbel ourselves and recieve instruction. With a tender kiss to each of you  Yours J.G.
