 Calw 26 January 1869
Dearest Frederic

We also have heimweh in writing you letters, one would rather give a kiss and press you than to send love; in Christmas as the two brothers were here you were missed very much! and one must remember and think again it is the Lords doing so we can be quiet and live in spirit with you. Your letters give us always much joy. Now is Tantele with you perhaps. their departure will give you more heimweh again: but how shall we long to hear from them all about you and Mangalore. I trust that you have joy with your new friend Muller and that your food is good and healthy.

Louise <Klein>* said lately "wenn nur Herr Fred ein wenig von unsere Kälte hate," these 8 days it is very cold 15 degrees, no snow! Papa has a severe Catharr; on this account cannot go to Nagold mission conference, he cannot take his walk after dinnar, it is thank God not on the chest; but in the head, slept last night better than before. Our Frommer baker is to be burried to day hafter 3 days of illness, You know the big man rather cross, living after the post office. We have much sickness in Calw, the young Reible came from Stutgart ill with consomtion it appears. he coughs much and is very weak, Dr Shütz is in Palestina for some monthes. Paul and David are very silent scarsly a word, formerly one looked for a letter every monday from Stutg which never fehlt! dear dear son, you related us all your joys and troubels, and were thereby so close together, we are still close; but do not see, well we must beliefe and look upward where we shall meet never to part again, let all our joys and trials bring us nearer to our Lord before whom we shall soon praise together yea praise for our present tribulation. May God bless you richly giving you hunger and thirst after His word and teaching you to live from it or by it.
with a tender kiss
 Yours JG.

My love to all those who remember us black and white more especially to Hanna and Simeon she is one of my favorites a fine child of God. I love her dearly. her work is not in vain
