<23.>* 1Calw 22 June 1869

Dearest Frederic

Till now tuesday no letter from you nor from Marie, but it may still come. The dear Plebsts are with us, he has just had the mission meating in our house, spoke nicely to the few ladies who were knitting, related simpel facts how the hindous dress and live, all were pleased to hear him; our dear Emma is the old Tantele, still nicer if it were possibel, our beloved Emelie Muller enjoys them much and even learns Canarese a little with Emma, besides that which she learns with papa, the more I see of her the more, the more I value and appreciate her, a real fine perle,

The Plebst are going with papa to Bale next Saturday, after which they go to Jagtsfeld to bathe. Mama did not come with them she fears the journey, and is not yet quite well. That Anna has a girl you will already have heard, both are quite well; Adolph also glad: though he expected a second son. Mr Plebst has spoken us of a medecine you have in India called chlorodyne <das es gewiß auch hiezu Lande gibt>2 if you have once an opportunity you might send us a small bottel <von etwas anderem>2. I am some time troubeld with diarhee, have you tried it? These last days we are warming the ovens; for it is really cold, it has even frosen on the hills ice was found in Samelet, and many things injured. one fears for the corn because it rains much. These days I felt troubeld as if I had not cared for you well as long as you were with the Wirzes, you should have had a better food and wine etc I asked God to pardon me for having neglected you. So you see what I am.

 Adieu my very dear <Bubele>2.
