 122d februar 69
Dearest Marie

Your long wished letter brought us no better news about dear Charles health. perhaps the Lord will have blessed your trip by sea and done him good, I am very glad you accompanied him to Bombay, he wants your cares, and it chears him up to have mama and son with him, perhaps from there are you going down the coast I hope so. Your dream, your feelings about me should humble me deeply, first I am anworthy of so much love from you, you know and I know what a bad spirit prevented me to love you and made me so bitter, so that I shall be ashamed my whole life for it, you have pardoned me I know, I belived you on your promise, often when I read my bibel the evening I feel grieved and ashamed, that knowing so much of Gods word I am still as I am. Oh dear child the heart is decietful above all, who shal know it, lately I feel how much is still to be changed and renewed in me that beast I has still many marks and names were it but own thoughts, imagination plans, judgement, self wrightious and all, what could still be said; To become like a child I have much to learn, specially in not thinking so much and talking too, it is fearful how I let myself to be decieved with own thoughts, one instance of it I will tell you. In January the morning at 5 oc I heard and felt a noise under my bed, two hours afterward as I was broshing the room, the lamp kindle on the tabel, the glass brock no one being near it, I then thought what signs are these? As the news of Cs illness came I feared it is for him and often the thoughts have crossed my mind; much smaller things than these can so occupy my thoughts Oh it is fearful how self rules, plays and deal under faulse name, there is scarsly one day in which I have not to repent to have said some thing unwise in pious talk, so I must say of myself unclean unclean and wretched, I abhor myself, and still how blind and proud, One thing more I will tell you but to you alone it is a source of humiliation for me, but I would not have known me without this, the devil is permitted to troubel me with fearful temptations specially during prayer and reading the word of God, with unclean thoughts of God the devil knows that he has but little time and is furious, but it is or shall be indeed a little or short time and we shall get the victory, now is the time to fight withstand and by His grace we shall overcome. All is promised to him who overcomes therefore none shall overcome without having first fought, Oh dear Marie We have a high calling, heirs of God coheirs with Christ so even the promise to be one day like Him. could we would we believe this in reality, we would certainly walk more holy now. and fight courageously, My text I got this year was walk holy before God, I unclean, unholy, have to walk holy. I have never appreciated as now the blood of Christ which cleanses us from all sin, the great assembly above has washed and cleansed their robes in the blood of the lamb. I learn this now. You learn it too in your present trial, and God will so bless it for you both, that thereby His kingdom and Glory be promoted, His name praised, the precious promise you mention as filling your heart, is the very one the Bristol Muller had, and rested upon during the recieving his orphens for whom he had no money no food often reproches for venturing so much

May the Lord do even beyound your and our faith and prayers
 Yours affectionate

kisses to you all
