 129 mars 1869

Many thanks for your well come of the first March, I rejoice greatly of the good news about Mrs. Shirt Dear Marie may God give you grace for her, you may be of a great use to her as also a drowback, you have to keep very close to the Lord that you may be a blessing for her, a new converted soul is easily influanced, and the growth depends much on the one, one has communion with, We pray the more for you that you may walk with the Lord and be a smell of life, Jesus is our life, if He lives in us we shall comunicate life through Him. Distrust of self; and full confidence in the Lord must increase in us daily. These days I read Johns gospel and epistles with new interest. the promise so oft repeated in both abide in me, keep my commendments and whatever ye may ask shall be greanted, should be much more considered from us, our Lord makes a condition with us, abide in me, or keep my word, then prove me whether I keep my promise regarding prayers, yea He is faithful and if we are in earnest we shall find Him like Maria Magdalene, if one loves me I shall reveal my self unto him to whom? to those who love Him John 14.21,23 We can love creatures so much, what cannot love do? Oh for love to our Lord who alone is worthy of it, for love to His children and for perishing souls. May God realise your wish and fill you with love for the souls.

Poor Ayah that she has so little understood of God and self. through such disapointments one learn to pray and work with a right mind in Gods service 