 Calw first January 69
Dearest Frederic.

When you get this the dear Plebsts will be leaving you, which will grief you and give you heimweh; however you will also have thanked God to have seen them for some days, Paul and David are here both not quite well, Paul suffers now and then from his head, as if the brain was affected by too much study. so that he has to learn to seek rest and quietness; The Lord will also thereby teach him some thing. Our dear David is still the same, he wanted to return to Stut. tomorrow; but the Dr does not allow, I do not understand him, he is nice trys to please us as much as possibel; but on religieus subject on his own state of mind one cannot know any thing. 
Apropos if tantele is still there tell her to bring me no carry stuff I have too much, our boys can not eat of it any more. Tomorrow morning Buhl leave this for Bale, from where he shall be sent to India perhaps. Tante Emma is again quite well, to day the brother of dear Marie Kaiser died nearly suddenly, it is a great grace of the Lord to have taken him away after 25 years of imbecility.

It has been raining much of late so that one feared the Nagold would overflow.

The Wirzes were with us one evening, she told me once that he is growing remarquably in Gods grace, she wishs she could be like him. And you my dear son you wish to be like your Lord daily, nothing else will help, Christ in us, with Him we can stand before God; the more He lives in us the smaller we shall be, yea dear son small for our own eyes.

I thank you heartily for your private note and for all the news; but do not troubel yourself. I am sorry you have so very much to do, you might easily get exited which could hurt your health May God keep you in quietness and calmness of mind. Adieu dear son my love to all who remember us. Love from Louise and all the peopel in the house

forget not to keep a time of prayer and reading Gods word pray often. You get every thing by it, make it a rule to pray often but short  Yours J.G.
