 Calw 25 July 1869
My dear Frederic

Many thanks for your last. since you will have heard how it is with Charles and family, had we been abel in time to advise them we would have asked them to try some places in India such as Coimbatur before they come to Europe; for India is better for such ilness than here, now we have to wait and see how it goes, the Niellgherries might also have been good! We have to do with the Lord, He will care for them.

I read at present Leben und wirken des Georg Muller in Bristol. I had already formerly read some thing of it which pleased me much; I can not tell you what rich blessing I get by reading it, no it is most beautiful and incouraging to see how the Lord has strengthened his faith I know no work which revives and helps me as this, try to get it dear Frederic, it will surely be in English some where to be got. <Ich will Dirs schicken>1 Live with God, learn to wait upon Him for small and great things. as he does. pray as he does, is a very great gain; may God give me something of it. I am glad you wrote to dear Anna, papa got goodle from the baptisem. I have not yet written her. Grossmama is somewhat better.

Yesterday came 4 young men from the Missionhouse the one who is going to M seems to be nice energetic; ful of life, he will have to learn still, he speaks rather much, is ready to do much, the Lord will know how to quiet him and make him useful

 Adieu my dear son
 yours J.G.

the calm and quietness of Muller is that which I specially beg for me. We might do much with more faith
