 Calw 18 April 1869
Dearest Frederic

I write you a few lines today; for I fear that I shall not be abel to do it during the week as we have cleaning the whole house - Cook room and godown white wash Maries room made fine for Gastzimmer. Jettles one tapete or paper put, we shall not finish this week to clean all.

I wish you a little of the cold we have to day one would be glad of a worm oven, after a fortnight very warm and tropical as papa said. I long to hear how you bear the hot season; you had headache. it is a good thing that your feet perspire though unpleasant, it keeps you from other complaints; perhaps from diarrhee too. Do you try cold application for you head ache? it might be good perhaps: but above all seek quietness and calmness, in the Lord, not only about work but about thinking, to become a child is to say much and we have to pray in order to undearstand that, a child has not so many thoughts and fantasie, imagination, cares not much about others judgment, whether he is very wise and ful of undearstanding makes him no cares, he walks from moment to moment recieves without caring how he shall get the things. I have much to learn to become as a child, and the Lord has said except you become as a child you shall not enter in the kingdom. No dear son we will with Gods grace learn more about this lesson and every day ask, how am I to become a child and in which things The Lord who has commanded it shall work it in us if we are earnest about it

With a hearty kiss
 yours J.G.
