 Calw 17th January /69
My very dear Frederic

Yours of 4th Dec has given me much joy to see how gracious the Lord is to you, is it not these few months have profited you more than several other years? to learn to trust, to believe God is some thing unspeakably great, one feels, that it is reality, it is no more from men that which one has, it is direct from God, with whom we have to do, it gives us great assurance and confidence to Him and always less in man. Oh my sweet F. I trust also that your complaint is only to help you onward, that thereby you find more easily or must seek to know what is the will of the Lord, specially avoied agitation and unquietness, more or less work is not so important before God but quiet and calmness the whole done with prayer. to this the Lord will bring you by being unwell. and avoied also carry and hot food, I trust the stay of Tantele and P will help you in many things. Have you milk now? 
According to your wish the Lord will keep you and encrease even in you the love of souls. I feel like you and have always felt it one might do more for the salvation of souls. but only pressed by the love of Jesus is of use, one can work and do much; but His love must constrain us, else it is nothing valuable before God.

You feel that we are near you in spirit yea it is so, and we rejoiece that the Lord has brought you in His vineyard He will surely care for you, the text you had remains true "I will be with him in troubel I will hear him and help and honour him" without troubel you shall not be by time: but thereby you know the Lord and grow in Him

the experiences we make then are better than health, gold and silver, they make us partaker of His holiness and nature, His word is also more precious to you.

20th Many thanks for your kind letter which came some what late; however we are glad to hear, your letters give us always much joy. I shall be glad to hear that you have a good friend in Mr Muller I remember him very well and was much pleased to see him here he gave me the impression to be a humbel child of God which is to say much; for in our days it is a rare thing, May the Lord give you many blessings together that your love to each other be in Him the head. I find that you have rather few day shirts, have only as much as you want in the way the others keep clean that is washed; but without canju or sterke; they spoil and become yellow if they have sterke starch a long time, you have also not many cotton socks. I shall care D.V. that you get per opportunity also shirts as long as you are bacheler you might sell or make a present of half of your woolen socks.

We liked Mr Boswell very much <Mama verwirrt die beiden Bosw.>* he came often to us in Cherical, is he married? in our time he had a mother and sisters at home whom he loved and cherished; Give him hearty love from us. tell him that we live with the brother of Mr Weitbrecht whom he knew well in India. Has the money from Caroline been given to Abraham will some one write her about it that he has got it? I am sorry to hear that you have headache now and then, take care of the food and landwind, The report is that Buhl goes to Mangalore Ansel to Africa both are to go soon it seems, in 6 weeks already. but we do not know it directly.

All the peopel in the house send you love all wish to hear about you how Louise, Louise Maurus is with Mrs Stälen she is well Schnurle thinks to marry her; but his mother will not have her. Last sunday was the baptisem of Zahns little girl. My very dear son Adieu in Him we have good  Yours J.G.
