<25.>* <6>* July <1869.>*
 <27 June - 7 Juli>*
Dear Frederic.

Your two letters came together for which hearty thanks. I am glad they came together the first one would have troubeld me a little on account of your headach and fever; but now the rains have brought refreshement and you are better God be praised. Papa left yesterday for Bale where your letters have followed him with one of Marie for which we were long expecting. God has also helped wonderfully there. Emelie Muller leaves us tomorrow 28th we love her dearly. I have worned her and I worn you, to avoied to show to much love to each other, she loves you having grown up near each other, and will do what she can for you; but you must be cautious before her husband, the devil is very busy and can spoil soon the good you might have in the house, her husband is some what dry I hear, she is sentimental as you are too, therefore be on your garde Plebst related us a great deal about all the peopel at Mangalore Pfleiderer and St are troken do not like any show about religion or feelings; but are faithful and living exempels of true christianity, models in work and practice etc.

These days I read in Timothious, it is for every one of us in perticular, we must learn to read the word of God just as we eat bread, knowing that thereby we live, yea that the bread of life. I am to apply to mysel that which I read, it must feed me abide in me, by this I am preserved from evil, made wise and strong in God. the word in us gives us much assurance makes us unmovebel, unshaken, the devil and world may do what they please one sais with David I shall not be moved because thou art at my right hand. 
Through Emelie I send you 6 fine shirts for the hot season, as yours from B are coarse keep them for the monsoon and cool seasons

Adieu dear son, David is happy in the Lord whom he now loves and confes  yours affectly JG

I have just seen the Wirzes who salute you heartily
