 Calw 26th May 1869
My dearest Frederic.

God be thanked for the good news we had again from you so well for the body as for the soul. He provides from day to day for both, so that you have only to believe and wait upon Him and should He make you to wait a while, believe firmly He will come and not tarry I have just visited the Klepfers, the mother had a schlag on the left side, her mouth is craked, her arm paralised just as she began to mouve a little about her daughter got gesicht ross; so hard that during 2 days one said she was dead in the midst of it the son the gardner was two days in delirum so much fever he had, he is again well, the daughter begins to get up a little. The Lord has knocked hard at them, poor woman she has knowlege enough from Grandpapa she will have heard; but till now they are wordly, and would be ashamed to be thought pietist the girl wept as I spoke to her. they felt I think that they are not in the right way. After that I saw the young Kepler from Hirsau 13 years old, has in mind to make the landexamen, father and mother dead, he lives with his ant Kaufman Muller, he had inflamation of the lungs is still very weak; but a fine soul in whom the Lord works,

Paul and David gave us joy during their visit here. So the dear friend of Marie Amalia Kauffman has gone to her rest, how quickly have some finished their fight, let us so fight so that we may with much joy salute our Lord when He comes. With we have good certainly, is it not? we must apply our selves to hear and follow Him How much did you pay for 30 socks? I am glad you can have them so

 Adieu dear son
 yours JG
