 Calw 26 May 1869
Dearest Marie.

We expected half to hear last sunday that you had been safely delivered; now we have still to wait, and trust in a few days to get good news of mama and baby. till now you have given good news of dear Charles health; but I beg him not to work too much, not trust too much the bit of strength he has, you are not aware what a liver complaint is, perhaps the most dangerous and incurabel for India, do not consider yourself as cured it can at once return, travelling, bear much fatigue you should not, one must not tempt the Lord when He has once showed us how much we can do. 
Theodor has I trust much joy with a companion. The death of your old friend Amalia K will have surprised and grieved you. We had a nice time with Paul and David. God is very gracious to us and ours.

Louise was married on monday 17th the mother would not go to church and less with us for our simple dinnar, the Zahns with Schnürles unkel <Ade>* his godfather were the only one, after nudel soupe and a rice kake they went all to stamheim. I see L often she is well and happy, thankful that God has given her such pious man, He is indeed the best among our pietists here a real man of God; the mother who lives vis a vis salutes them or gives back the salutation made her at the windows, she is friendly to him and we trust that she shall be so towards Louise afterward a great many peopel were in church at her wedding. but about these things Emelie and Jettle will have told you enough. I long to hear of the baby and yourselves 
With a tender kiss to all of you I remain
 yours J.G.
