 Calw 13th January 1869

Dearest Marie

Many thanks for your last which gives us good news of your health, as well as of C. and Th. Your poor Aya seams to be very often ill, and poor Marguarets son very unrully, what shall he do when big if he already dare struck his mother? so parents learn to know themselves in their children often. 
David left us two days ago very much the same in mind, in body better; though still mager and pale.

From Corcelles heard; they are both pretty well send love and good wishes to every one. I am glad you write often to Frederic, he wants it, he gives us joy in all his letters. I rejoice for him, that he has his dear tante Emma for some time, it will be of great use to him, in many things as they have no house mother, perhaps he does not get the proper food for him. Paul is better since he takes his papas advise about deviding his time and his study.

The letters of Herman give us much joy his wish is really to do Gods will and glorify Him who has loved him, he is humbel, no good opinion of himself, sober in his judgement. We have the prospect to see here Francis Dubois who is jet in Italy. Uranie liked him well he was there four days. My brother write that perhaps he may come too this summer with his family, however Frederic is the one I wish specially to see; but it does not seam he will move, he also never writes, Poor Fritz Fillinger seams to go on very bad, so writes Fran‡ois! Mrs Eigner is not expected to live, a consomption, Marie Scheffel is just now in Stuttg to see her once 
Caroline Weiß has still very hard time, the Lord will I trust give her comfort, Adieu my dear children, did I tell you that Rikele Schettle has made one dress and a shirt for your children which shall be sent next time Would leather aprons as boys wear here be well come in India?

With hearty kisses to you three and Marg
 Yours J.G.


1Habe heute meine Bürgerpflicht erfüllt und auf dem Rathhaus den Ausschuß gewählt, Weitbr kann nicht gehen wegen geschwollenen Knies, jetzt haben wir Gottlb Bth geschickt, der fragte: Ists in die Kammer? Doch gilt seine Stimme so viel als die meine!
