<Frau Martin-Schmerber, Missionsstraße 12, z.g.H.>1

 Bale 2 July 66
My dear wife

Arrived 5'30" on Saturday afternoon, the end of the way with Irion F Müller Scholl, Emilie Müller. Saw here Insp. etc and Reutlinger from America who brings Julia II's photography. I enclose it.

Had to hold the Martinsstunde, yesterday, went then into Christ's garden where Scholl related divers pieces of inner Mission. Few guests, viz. about half the former number

At 10 o'clock PM returned to my room and found your letter for which many thanks. So I could write the good piece of news to America whither my letter starts this morning. Shall write to India in the course of the day and send the photography with the hope that the original will follow in Sept. I feel with you that the Lord has done this and thank Him heartily for accomplishing our desire in His own way. May He now further it to the glory of His name! We may be sure that He has the best intentions which is more than can be said of us, but somehow or other we also learn a little to find them out and like them tho' through many mistakes. There are no later news here of Samuel. It seems a letter must have been delayed. I thank the dear Isenbergs for their readiness to follow the leadings of our Heavenly father. Please send them this poor scroll - I had no other paper than this and they will excuse the shortness of the note for I must go to the special Conference which is very early this morning. There will also be a speech for me on Thursday and other occupations so that I can hardly write any more. Again but thanks to Mama I. and Elizabeth, and may they be supported by the Lord in the separation that is now preparing for them. I hope Eliz. may soon come to Calw and find from day to day that she has a good father who cares for her and gives her all she wants for the mere asking! 
Farewell now - I hope your health is none the worse for your exertions.  Your HG.
