<No 10>* 1Calw 15th <-30>* Ja 1866

This evening papa has sent you the letters. I write you so a little the evenin if my little notes have no order you care not for it. Today at 11 ocl sundenly I felt that my left ear was opening, Got sei dank dafur. He will also in his good own time say hephata to the right ear. Mrs Springer Reicher, Helfer Frau us visits today. Mrs. Decan got a 5th boy last night. 16 I took a walk with papa on the road we met Seifried I was glad that papa could speak with him. he is still ill. Miss Dörtenbach came to the verrein for the first time, she was friendly.

17th came a letter from Paul Got lob he continues to rejoice in his saviour who is very gracious to him. the child like mind he has does really good. Ja I feel I must also be more like a child. Oh how does one cheat one self, how led by imagination, 18th Mrs. Wöhrle, Marie Kaiser, Mrs Steiger visited us and inquired much after you and send you much love bei the W all well also in Reittingen by Kaiser too, and Mrs Steiger gives always joy that is really a fine soul always pleased with all what comes, her boy who was so ill is now very well.

Mrs Statdfurster has a little boy, she is pretty well but the new born gives them much trouble, it is very weak and nervous child

19 I see that my paper is too bad one cannot write on both side. to day I took a walk with papa. it was really delicious, I paid also a visit to Mrs Dörtenbach, after more than three weeks I had not seen her. Their is much sickness in the town and many die; the Gibser Hünsle has also died, poor man would hear nothing of God nearly till his death. Mogling has sent us a letter from Mrs Hoch, it is really rejoicing to see how the Lord helps her through, her children give her much joy. several of them seam really to love the Lord. Mögling send also a letter of Laier two of his daughters are brides, one to go to Africa to Ruckhaber the second to go to India to Krauss who lost his wife not so long ago, the Dirlam. the parents are full of joy to see two of their cildre following them in the Mission work. Your letter to me in English has given me much joy double joy. first that you love me and the second you undertand.

It is really not worth sending you this scribel. I shall no more take such bad paper.

I long to hear more from you, tell me every thing Had you scheets for so many visitors you had?

1Well if the Lord bring all right you may just like like us get a baby 9 months after your marriage. I felt the morning sickness just in the begining I could not wait till brackfast I felt so sick my chest so weak, I drank as soon as I could a Cup of Coffee, one must eat often, one likes usually sour things; but one must not eat too much of them. I never vomited though very sick; but I spitted out a bason full every day, during three or four month, I begd often papa to give me an emetic; but he would not which was quite right, no medecin if possible, also not too long walk, especially if you should feel a weakness in the back. The little things you wish I shall send with much joy Oh dear Marie I thank you for your love to me, it does me good, comforts me to hear dear Charles is so good to you. 21 I went with papa to Hirsau, the schoolroom pretty full, it was the first time I heard an explanation on the second of John. Marriage in Cana and cleansing of the tempel, all very nice how the Lord is gracious and friendly in the beginning but how he pulls down and cleanse his temple our hearts. Herrn Decan paid us a visit this evening thanked for a Kleine Kittele which Jettle keindly worked for me to give to their 5th son. Mother and child are well. Jette drinks tea with Mrs Wirtz, papa is in Stunde Louise in bed and I with you a little while, I am very thankful I can the evening write, I can do it better than read, I do not find the evenings too long at all. The Lord be praised that I hear from the left ear pretty well; the right one is still shut up; but the Lord can also open it in his time. From Paul again a nice letter, he is so child like, does not know how to set about, makes himself trouble with thoughts, had he near him a friend it would perhaps be better; but God will make all right he is the Lord's thats the chief matter. Dear Marie pray much for Hermann and his wife that they may also be converted.

22. Papa Jettle went to Zafelstein for the conference Mrs Schmidhener spent the day with the Weitbrecht, asked much after you and sends you much love. she is well her children too, he went to Zafel. I paid a visit to the two Mrs Schauber, much love to you, he is not well. I saw also the poor Miss Hass who have a great deal of trouble with their sister Rikele, one trys to have her in Winenden; for she is so bad often violent so that they can no more have her in the house.

23 Pauline Sommer dined with us, we drank afterward Caffee with Emelie, Marie Scheffel and Mrs Steiger, Mrs Traub very poorly, again cramps in the chest and much pains, Emanuel Gross so ill that one expect his death, Rudolph also ill in Urach the mother would have gone to him; but must stay with Emanuel. Herman still vain and proud! pour dear people they have much to bear. How thankful are we to be who have so good hitherto, it is all grace je pure grace, what have we deserved; I must say after Paul we have recieved Gnade um Gnade! 24 Today Ettle went to Zafelstein to hear about Emanuel who is somewhat better. the Dr has hopes that he recovers it is typhus. but pour Herman gives them much trouble, first angry that one does not work quick at his shirts. Would go to Stutgart by all means to put his things in order, though his poor mother begs him to wait a few days till one see how it goes with Emanuel, no he went,

Mr Lamparder paid me a visit, the first since her confinement. they are all well, her Anna eats milch brod soople, she is big and strong. A propos have you also got your sheets, table clothes, napkins at Mangalore, were they right and have you also money anough from papa to pay? you must tell us all 
25 Mr. Gross has gone to Ura to see Rudolph who has schleim fever, papa is to go tomorrow to preach in his stead. I have walk with papa the weather is beautiful like in May

26 I paid a visit to Mrs Betzner who has been ill. Mrs Wöhrle came too us I was there, both were nice I told them "I thank God for this trial about being deaf. God does all well, if only we learn what the Lord's will may be. Mrs Betzner is the same regarding her eyes and I thinks she learns too under it. 28 in Hirsau it was full four Zahn came too with Emelie Jette and I are workin Kittele. 29 it rains, Emanuel better, 30 Mrs. Sprenger came to the verrein. I walked with papa, much rain

Adieu much love to you both
 JG
