 <Calw 5 Septbr 66.>*
Dear Frederic

I first thought to write you a long letter by David; but now you will have heard that he is not yet well and stays with Charles till Saturday or Monday;

Dear Son are you well, did I perhaps trouble you when I was in Stutg I had so very little time and so very tired that I neglected you quite. I felt it and was uneasy but then here found so much to do that I could not write, Why did Mr. Weiss not come we expect them yesterday and to day, Are they not gone to Pforzheim?

My dear Frederic excuse me that I did not write sooner but I feel tired from Nagold trip. give my love to all
 yours JG.


1Lieber Fried.

Sei so gut und besorge den Brief an Hein. Wir erwarten Paul alle Augenblikke jezt, wäre auch nett, wenn Du kämest, aber wir kommen bald zu euch Herzliche Grüße von Carl und mir an Alle Lieben. Albert hätte auch sollen so keck sein und kommen.
 In Liebe Dein Da


2Dear Friedrich

You may well put on two shirts in the week and 3 three pair of stockings, you have enough of both to do it; it is also better for you to be clean, it is healthy. Perhaps that I shall see you in a fourtnight. I shall perhaps take farewell from Elisabeth in Stutg with Paul when papa shall go with her to Bale

It appears to me a long time since we heard of you or from you; however papa will soon bring me news, and I will wait to send your box till he has returned. You are perhaps with him in Kirchheim today, while I am sitting very quiet at home; but I have a good day with Gods word in which I find all what I want. May you also find in it much food and blessings, it is for the hungry and thursty,

 Adieu ma dear son Yours J.G.

your letter about David makes me to come to Stutg

I am with David bei Mrs Steinkopf I do not know whenn I come to you 