 Stutgart 10th Febr 1866
Dear papa

Thanks for your letter. I had already heard that one has no hope of Rudolph's life to be spared. Thursday I was with the Steink. and Eigner, yesterday paid a visit to Mrs. F Muller, heard Hebich in the Sale. afterward went with Mama to the Isenberg, read the letters from America and Indian, Paul sent them with a word in the Anvelop that he could not add to it because it would be too heavy. After dinnar the Isenberg came to Mama where the Mission Verrein was, after it came Mr Pfisterer with his nice wife, they send you love, I met them again in Mrs. Schwarz where we drank tea, Mama, Tante, Adolph and Anna, we returned soon home because Frederic was alone, David came as usual half past 8, he had already been with us by Tante after dinnar, he is like a bottle without cork, the essence evaporates to soon; at least it seams so, it is a great difference from Paul, who as soon as he felt the Lord some what far could not bear it. When I saw D. just after he had recieved peace he was exceedingly nice something glorious on his countenance, joy peace could be seen and felt his flaming eyes fixed to heaven where he saw as it were the Lord, he told me then that it was a joy for him to loock always above, I hope today and specially to morrow to see more of David alone, that which the Lord has began he will surely continue and perfet to his Glory. I may also be wrong in my impression regarding his present sate. We have to believe for us and for our own, the wind must blow in order to be quickened and to remain alive, Frederic is quiet and pretty nice. To day Mrs. F Muller will visit me, read Marie's letters, after which I hope to go to visit the Moerikes, Riegers, and perhaps Mrs. Süskind. if the time reaches so far. I thought first to return on Monday; but the time would be some what short; as I would like also to hear Hebick here, I saw him just one minut after his meeting. I shall Dieu voulant return Wednesday.

About the Stadtförsterer I would no more help alone, they might be helped by collect so that one knows how much they get altogether, it is not good for those people I think they accostume themselves to beg to each door and one does not know how much they get. I may be wrong in my jugment; but they are I fear getting in a wrong way. The picture books will have arrived in time in Türkheim. May God bless your words in Altburg and be with you. The people of the house I have not yet seen closely, one has wash. The bride and her mother are often here, they seam to be very nice. May God help Hannesles mother. Emma writes that Haufs Kittel Mrs Amman were to come in April, they the P were very well. I am glad Jetle was with Tusnelde love to her with thank for her note love to E. L. the W.
 Yours J.G.

the Morikes send love he is better, could not read M.* letter for too many visits he will return it soon. Riegers send love Conrad had fever some what nervous they use the Water cure which has done very well till now, he is still in bed
