N 13 1Calw March [15] 1866

Dearest Marie

first. we had wash today. dried it on the brill in a few hours, Jettle and myself very busy to finish the kittele for Herman's expected one because H Gross goes in Monday to Bremen poor joung man he does not look well, just now many sick people in Calw.

2d. I thought how bad I have been with you often during a wash, not allowing you to do the work and being so cross that you did not do it, what a contracdingting spirit! Resele Kapler has just come to spend the eving so good night.

3d Today came a nice letter from Paul, he had a good week, has found out that to praise and thank the Lord is the best way to be kept alive and get blessings. Ah what a great grace has done God to our children that they are all his own. Frederic is some what troubled about confessing his Lord, asks whether he should speak or not; on the whole he is nice. Fran‡ois writes that he has given order to have a watch made for you as cadeau de noce; as soon as it is finished Uranie will send it to us you shall then get it by the first good opportunity. On begins already to work in the garden. I do nothing in it. of late I had many sick people to visit Oh if only the sickness and trial could help the people to seek the Lord; It is really difficult to bring the truth before most of them. It remains true if the Lord does not send his spirit to make sin sinful before us we trifel with it and with death. the Lord is indeed of long suffering, also with us, how does he waits trys again and waits till we get a bit of understanding. 
4th I have been in Newhenkstatt, to bid or take fairwell in 8 days the good people are going, the little one has fever; but one hopes it will soon pass away, Mrs Traub pretty well, must lie a good part of the day, looks well, is chearful all send you love. It is a loss for the people, that they leave, they will feel it; but too late.

6th yesterday we did iron, was too tired to write. we expected the Gros father mother with Herman so since 3 Oc we did no more sleep Jettle not more than papa and myself; at 5 they came Herman went then to Pforzheim from than to Bremen and America, the farewell was hard Mrs and Mrs G remained with us still a while and went home, Tusnelde is not at well, Emanuel still weak. Our Verein as usual. Mrs Schauber and Sprenger with Emelie are the one who came regularly. today Jettle write to Mrs Fink to get cloth for our Saufa a new cover.

7 There came a letter from Herman all well, his wife expect in May an addition. Saw Mrs. Dörtenbach she is much cast down much heimweh! Many sick people. the poor Rickle Hass has run away one night; the sisters were terribly alarmed, next day came a telegram, that she was in Neuenbürg, where she had walked, one hopes to get her in Winnenthal [Winnen]<den> as soon there be a room for her, Emelie came expecting already a letter from you. I am very anxious to hear how you bear the hot climat in your state it will be more difficult, one feels the heat more, specially when one does not know how to turn oneself in bed. I used to have a good deal of pain on the side up, but only the last monthes, Imagine that I have dreamed several times that I had again a little one, was nursing, or in pains to be born! no fear of such joy! 10 Yesterday I was in Nagold with Widman much love to you from Mrs. Zeller. On my return I found your letters for which many thanks I also could not eat during the time except tamerind and sour things, but had a great wish for potatoes and cheese and fancy papa brought me once a piece of it from a big dinnar where he had been invited, he managed in his way to bring it in his poket at table! I have just paid a visit to Mrs Decan who is not at all well, much pains in her leg. Mrs Steine is with her. 11th Today papa had the Mission Stunde. the text was John 7 38 in order to produce such rivers of living water as there discribed we must abide in him. Ja dear Marie I must repeat again keep close to the Lord, keep a time of prayer and reading his word for yourself alone, feed upon the word that you may have some thing for others. God will help you to learn the language, be not discouraged, your will learn it with your child; but you will see that the child learns quicker than Mama at least it was so with me; nevermind God will help you, it keeps us humble and in prayer if we cannot learn so quick as others

12 saw Mrs. W. Christine is pretty well, still in bed 13 did you buy a siringe in Bombay? be careful to keep your bowels in order with oil or lavement. Minele Trost has just been here she sends love, she confessed with tears that she is no more what she was in Korndhal she looks more wordly she is going near Bale we recomend her to the Busser Louise is pretty well it is very difficult to get good servants so we keep her for the present though now and then I feel it difficult A kiss to you both we are much by you and speak often of you, tell us more of your Chaplain! I feel some time anxious for you amongst Masulman; the heat will be more trying in your present state than it would otherwise
