 Calw 24 Sept 1866
My dearest Marie

Your last came friday 21 we were glad to get two at once; thats is to say that the first had not been lost Theodor with Johana and the two girls were still with us so they could hear the news, The Lord be praised for his goodness to you both. I hope to hear soon that He has brought you safe through your confinement. I liked our Barmen people very much both father and mother very nice, the two girls of course; Frederic Muller was also here so that we had the house full during some days; but I was glad to see the young Muller he walked much with Paul; with Johana and F we went twice to Hirsau they were much pleased with the view. they would have gladly staid longer; but they wanted to be at Stutt, for mamas birthday, and afterward Joha. will with the girls returne to B. Theodor being not well remains longer taking the Homeopathy mittle

Elisabeth has written to us from Marseille; I intend DV. to go with Paul to Stutt during the days papa goes to Balingen for the Mission feast. This evening we expect Mr Buser with Louise, Mrs W. and Fritz promise to come too; but I doubt, Mrs. W. is very affectionate. She gave to Elisabeth a fine piece of cloth for a mantel.

We are expecting Paul Steudel with his wife for a few days. Helene and Eli. salute you heartily, the little one is rather excited and too forward she is very affectionate; she said she would rather stay in Calw than in Stu and Helene too even rather than in B because of school where she must go; but poor J. was so troubled with the fleas that she could scarsly sleep. I wonder dear Marie you have swollen feet I never had them so; but many have them so, now all will be over, that is not all over, the little one, He or she, will cause you with the joy, some anxiety; but it is the way appointed from God for us, that we learn to pray, to believe to trust, till we get such confidence in God our father so that we fear no more what ever may come at every new trial we say, that is my father he cannot make a mistake. I will wait upon him. His great love is daily more seen, observed, and palpable, at last we can not only submit; but praise and rejoice at every dealing of His. He drives away the spirit of fear through repeated experiences of trials and delivery, we then grow bold before the Lord and say after Jacob I do not let thee go without a blessing not a common blessing; but a new name, which we alone know as said in the revelation 2.17 
27. Monday came Mr and Mrs Steudel, on tuesday evening came Mrs Wöhrle Buser and Miss. Weitbrecht with Mrs. Scheffel; but unhappily our oxen braten was not good, Mrs. S. told Mrs. Eßig I will no meat from you the one of yesterday evening was so that no one could eat it, it was only a little hard! to day Mr Steudel goes to Teinach his wife remains with us till he return et they will return to Hirschland saturday; she is a very delicate lady: bodily and soulish, has a great want of sympathy and love, she calls me mama and will always be with me. I give her knocks; she takes them well. Elise St is always the same. I have just paid a visit to Mrs. Helfer Schmid who is with her daughter very well, she had a very light confinement and looks as if she had had no child. the boy is growing very Staut and is very noisy he is much bigger than Scheffel and runs about, she inquired much after you and trust it will go as well with you as it was with hers Emelie S. goes with Papa till Tubingen then to Reitlingen I gave her my kittely for the expected one, today Mrs. Steutel has a bad day she feels very weak and very nervous, she weeps much being grieved at not being as ministers wife to fill up her place towards the congregation.

I long to hear about you but perhaps the next news will still be written by you still expecting. I go perhaps to morrow morning to Stutgart with Paul to see once more before winter our two sons there and see Mrs. I. too I shall loge with her. Now Adieu much love to you both with a kiss to an unknown baby
 yours J.G.

1Habt ihr Papa Isenbergs Leben per bookpost bekommen?

Mama wehrte sich sehr gegen diese Stuttg Reise, ich setzte sie aber durch, während ich in Bal. wäre. Sie wird bei Mama I. übernachten
