 Calw 21 Fevrier 1866
 <Mt Clemens 17 März 66>*
My dear Children

Many thanks for your last, it gives me joy to get a few lines in english from you. all the news about yourself wife and child give us joy. you did not say any thing about Christina's hand, I trust it may soon be better. Did you not say once that you expect an addition to your family? I would have liked to send you by the last opportunity a small knitted Kittele for the expected one; but it was not finished however I trust it may still come in time. I was just in Stutgart as the paquet of books were taken by Frederic to Unter Turkheim. I suppose Julia will have much joy in seing the pictures, her Mama too. In Stutgart one talked much of you. though I was but a short time with Mama and Tante. I lived in Olgastreet because of Frederic. who is with Oncle Adolph. it is also nearer for David who spent all his free time with us. The Lord is very good to us; for David also is the Lord's property, he has been found early, since Paul was brought to the Lord on the 26 Dec, David has been mouved and uneasy, though he answered me at the time when I asked him whether he would not also seek the Lord "Not yet it is still time" The Lord did seek him for he had no rest any more till he found peace in Jesus; now he learns to believe, to fight the good fight. with such a nature as he has it is difficult but the Lord is faithful and carrys on his work which he has began. With Paul and David I felt how a conversion is entirely Gods work. The Wind blows where it will, as the Lord said to Nicodemus, The Lord be praised that it has blown for these two last sons of ours. May you get a rich part of all the blessings we have had here. We want to be revived and quickened. one accustoms one self to a form of life without the power from above. One can speak and preach without the Lord. every Child of God makes the sad expierience that he does many things without his Lord, although we know that without him we can do nothing; and therefore there are so little blessings on our work. It was beautiful to see in Paul that intire dependance upon God. as soon he did not feel peace and the Lord near he was uneasy could not as it were live without the presence of his Saviour. May God keep him so and make him a fit instrument for his holy work.

I trust with you dear Children that we shall have the joy to see still each other in this world. when ever I hear of a work for which one requires some body I think of you and hope the Lord may so manage that you come again; but all in his own time; no more dreaming; but living of realities. The Weitbrechts the two Girls of D. Bardh Annele and Catherine send you love, many here ask still after you.

With a tender kiss to you three
 yours J. Gundert

I look often at your picture and like to see your Christine
