 Stuttg. 7 Mai 66
My dear wife

Arrived at St when Fred gave me the enclosed from Paul. We saw Grandmama, Mr F M端ller, where Mrs Irion was who salutes you Moerike who is very weak indeed. I shall today see him again. Anna well. Dav. went with me to Baltmannsweiler and enjoyed the day. We talked about many things, he is much offended with inconsistencies of Christians would wish them all to be much more one and the same thing in Christ. I was glad to see him so earnest in the matter, and fancy his principal is at times a real study for the youth, not always an edifying one. But he moves quicker onward than Fred. who often wavers a little. Saw Hebich too on morning walk. - Here warnews 50,000 W端rtembergians are to be called out with 150,000 Bavarians, the Warminister dismissed and another General Hardegg appointed. Well we shall see what the Lord says to the story.

Fred M端ller tells me, that Rudolph had since Christmass turned more to his old friends, also young Fr M端ller had repeatedly visited Gros when he was first taken ill and had every hope of his having given his heart to the Lord. It is nice to know this.

I hope to write again from Bremen, the Lord willing. Emma wrote that Sam had had fever, but was better again. Hanhardt was very ill. Kies I saw a moment, he was apparently cheerful, but at the bottom rather dejected about Indian Mission prospects.

Kittel seems to have been nice on the whole, said to Grandmama, Gott segne Sie, die Mutter meiner Wohlthaeterin, die ich nie vergessen werde. Rather pathetic. Nothing more for the present I have yet to see Moer once more and then Mr Steink. whose mother seems to be dying. Tell Mr Weitbr that we walked yesterday from Baltmannsweiler to Winterbach with Mr Veil, and that I saw the two sisters of Bertha at the feast, both seem very nice. 
Helfer Klett was not there, only his wife, it is doubtful whether he is to be Decan at Schorndorf, tho' the brethren have petitioned for him. Two elder ones have also applied. Now fare well and love to all

 Yours affly
 H Gundert
