 Calw 4th to 15 July 1866
My dearest Marie

This time I have more to tell you than usual, though you know already the subject; but I know you will like to hear all about, Since pretty long I thought of Elisabeth, but felt as it were schy and the idia, a real conversion is not yet there kept us, however others we would have taken who have perhaps much less inward life than she has at all events much less humility, gentless, and experience in every things, the Lord has perhaps prooved by our continual mistakes in the choise that this is the very one He has appointed, she was very near and we searched far! On the 30th June very early before I went to St. I opened my loosung book with a look to the Lord. I found Octber 7. Der Herr wird gebieten dem Segen, dass er mit dir sei in allem was du vornimst." I went than with courage at 9 Oc arrived in St, entered the house Berg St 18 found Mama I. and Jettchen, like Eliesar would not eat till I had deliverd my mesage for Isaak or S, Mama was surprised; but was pleased if this should be gods way, the person wanted has not come to the well as Rebeka She is in Kornthal, one will write to her and she may come tomorrow, Ja I must give a answer to my good man who is in Bale, where also Mrs Muller is who expects allso a word, I grew bold and said writing takes too much time; we must send for her, there was some delay; at last Mama said well Jettle can go, this one who knew not what we had been talking together was rather surprised and imagination found many reasons for this hurried dispatch; perhaps E has seen some one in Calw who will have her: all sorts of people; but not S. Elisabeth much surprised; and some what troubled with a bad conscience supposed, "Ah I have been talking with Rosa Frey about S.G. guessing who might be his bride I had heard of a Mrs Martin in Bale and I told it yet the Gunderts have heard of my having talked and it has been misintrepreted or related so that yet I get a scolding! the idia would they ask me for him <S> crossed also the mind; but was immediatly rejected, As she entered the house I met her on the staircase I kissed her, she was somewhat cool, at once I led her in Alberts room with her mother alone while I was with J. She could not answer her mother could but sob and weep, so that the poor Mama came saying, She will require some times, I have no answer I went then to her, she was still weeping. I kissed her and said what's the matter, the only words I could get were I am not worthy, that gave me courage and I felt that I had but to make her courage, after a small talk that she as well as every one is indeed not worthy to work in Gods Wingnard, she was composed, after inquiry whether she could love S. and whether she wished to serve the Lord in India a joyful yes came out though with trembling. She then complained with weeping again that she had been bad with her mother disobedient. we praid together and chearfulness took place, I brought her out the room to Mama and J. saying Elisabeth is Bride with S. Jettle exclaimed I thought there were some thing loose we then talked what a joy our Hydrabad people woud have, how glad also would papa I. be I kissed again E. and said I am now your Mama you must tell me Du, she then still schy and timid said if I dare, since that we have grown bold to each other and I hope all is right. I have already written her twice, monday and wednesday.

To encourage you I will relate you a little story In the begining of May came a woman from Stammheim with a letter to Blumhart describing the miserable condition of her husband, who had already menaced to kill her, he has sent off his own children not being able to bear the sight of them at least of 3. the poor woman had become so melancholy that her very look excited pity, As she brought the letter we advised her to pray; but especially to join in prayer with Mrs Ritter whom you know, who has also much trouble with her husband, when the woman told her she had been sent to her in order that they should pray together according Mathew 18.19 she was displeased, said I cannot for myself how should I pray for you, after some time she came here, I reprouved her and shoved Math she had not observed it! she was surprised and much grieved at her unbelief, she then began to pray with the woman and behold; the man though not yet converted is an other man, against wife and children. I saw him yesterday, he likes to hear about the word of God; and showed even a mind to hear papa at Hirsau. The Ritter's son in der lehr as Carpenter cut his knee so that he was obliged to keep the bed, and one feared it would be a long story; the mother prayed by his side and after a few days he could already go to his work. she feels now and believes that one can obtain all from the Lord, an inward voice tells her often "the Lord is coming", that voice you have too is it not? As for me nearly continually is the warning the bridegroom is at the door, and the many texts about his Comming are clearer

6 Elisabeth has written full of Joy and praise to the Lord, Herman has written too you get his bit to me, poor Herman, she has* perhaps more than him, the picture of his Julia is very nice, Heinrich Gross has returned quite well; but Tusnelte is again ill! they have pretty good news from Herman, rather difficult to get work.

8th just as we were going Mama and myself to the Church yeard 7 Oc morning to lay down the body of our dear Zolverwalter Schickeln <Schweickle>* came your dear letters for which many thanks. I rejoice to hear that you make so many visits, that God gives you so many opportunities to speak of his name and love, and though it appears you difficult and as if you had nothing to say be of Good courage, pray before every visit you have to make and God will surely give you some words, the more you feel that you have nothing the better; you learn to depend on the one who alone can work some things through the few words of testimony He gives us. It is certainly good for us to have many opportunity to speak, we are more on our garde and pray much more, we then make experiences which help us much, only seek nothing great or fine and believe ferme that the word of God is still now the power of God unto Salvation if we believe this we use our own words less and value the bibel which we take as a sowrd on <in> the right and left hand. 
I have just returned from Hirsau where we all went Mama, Jetle, Emelie, papa spoke on the 7 Chp of John, I thought much of you as he explained the 38th vers, he rested specially on the words faith and holy spirit by which we recieve such spring of living water, and by which also we become a spring for others, therefore we have much to pray for these two gifts of God, faith and his Spirit, Knowlege alone cannot carry us through, to be able to testify to His name we must have more faith, could we really believe and feel how much we are loved it would be easy for us to speak of his love, et tell others how good one has with him, see dearest Marie how you can relate the love of your dear Charles, there is always a new subject for it, is it not? it pleases me to hear of it; and in this way, what do I say, much more have you to relate of the unsearchable love of your Saivior, He has taken your sins upon Him crucified them in his flesh on the cross, through Him alone are you a member of the bride who shall soon be redeemed from this world to be with the Lord and Reighn with Him, these great truth we do not believe properly, because our state of sin a condamnation has not brought us very low and made us to cry as it were out of hell who shall redeem me? but our Lord is of long patience and long suffring, He leads by the hand as a mother her weak child, He teaches us line after line, precept after precept, the thing necessary is to know our poverty and this you know by Gods grace and it will surely go on well, take always new courage and thank God for that which He has already done, it is His work, and I rejoice to see how you are led and blessed He will also make you a blessing; 
9th Mrs Wöhrle has paid us a visit. Mrs Fink expects also which is a great joy for all. In the work it goes slowly; the have been obliged to reduce much their labours as well as all other fabricants, there is but Seger who has much blankets to make for the militaire

15 All our people are in Stamheim, where papa preaches, mama went with Jettle slowly then followed papa with Elisabeth, we are all happy to have her, Samuel is well served by the Lord with such a wife, she requires to be known to be apreciated and valued, I trust Sam. will be like Plebst and yourselves who find always a new subject of praise for the gift of God in each other.

Frederic finds the time very long to be without work in Stutgart, and who know how much longer still. It seems to be with us as said in the revelation after God had sent plagues of various kind, the peopel repented not, lately a gentlman who spoke with a conductor and other postoffisors, said one should take this war as of God and repent, the conductor laughfingly said "God would have much to do if he would mix in such things, no no God has nothing to do in it, all thou near claped their hands saying bravo"! reason selfwisdom sittes as God now among all clases. Therfore we have good ground to look for our Lord and pray that all the believers be on the watch calling them and giving witness before a wicked world, for the time is short, do you think so? May God give you grace to look daily for our redemption, you may then perhaps say and what with our little one? God will care for the lambs, he spaired Ninive in consideration of such ones, they are his property

With hearty love and kiss to you both, Elisabeth brings you a beautiful watch made for India from F as the one of Elisabeth is not good you will I believe give her your own and keep the one of Fran is it not? she knows some think of it
 yours J.G.
