<N 12>* 1Calw <28 Febr 66>*

My dear Marie

16th I went to Zafelstein found the dear people pretty well. Tusnelde still weak, she cannot stay on her legs, without pains, she has no peace, Emanuel had again a little fever, Herman seams to repent, 16the paid many visits, the last by Mrs Wöhrele where I found her in tears greatly distressed about her Christine who has an inflamation of bowels or unterleib. pour Mrs Wöh, has very little hopes more.

Mrs Decan is also ill, it went on well after her confinment; but suddenly she got terrible pain on the upper part of the left leg, it is now much swollen, she cannot mouve it; and has fever. 18th I have spent the whole day with the Wöhrles nursing Christine, while papa and Jettle went to Neuhenkstatd where papa preached had Kinderlehr, from there to Hirsau and now in Junglings V. so four times to day, poor dear papa he looks very tired 
A propos as I was sitting near Christine it came in my mind that I did not sit near you whenn you had the grip, still some thing to be pardon Oh dear Marie there is no end of reproaches, and the blood of Christ alone can give me peace. 19th Sitzung for mission, the Gentlemen drank Caffee, also Anna Mayer with Herman Gross, he said that Emanuel is well. Tusnelde pretty well, he H looks better than formerly. I am so deaf that I did not go to Mrs Wöhrle, 20th To day is fine weather, I spent the afternoon with Mrs. W. christine is better, the little one of Mrs Lamparder looks much like the first, not very strong, nor lively, big; but pale, she is a good girl, To day I read again your little english note to me Ah dear Marie I must also weep when I read it. Have you really no lady near you; perhaps Peregrina will go to you she might thenn help you. In the 5th month you will feel mouving, and some time so strong that it looks like a little horse kicking with his feet the three last month Ch. must let you alone, 21 your dear precious letter came Oh dearest what a joy you have given by your english note, thousend thanks for your <love?>* shown to me in it. yea it does me good I thank you I can but weep for joy. God bless you for it. You say nothing of morning sickness do you bear it as if it was nothing at all? you are a good creature. I rejoice with you in the hope of a little one. You have it better than Julia in Balingen, who also just in the begining got in that way without suspecting it thought then it was a sickness, had much home sickness after her mother, would always be with her, left her husband; so that people said it was a very unhappy match. Apropos she is much better than she ever was. Mrs Mann told me that she is strong and well. 
22 Saw Mrs Wöhrle she was just writing to Marie F to whom I sent our love. her Christine is better; she has Mrs Mullers daughter to do the work till Christine can be up; but it may go still some weeks, Emelie has made you a beautiful little white dress which shall be sent with the Kittele, Paul and David are by Gods grace going on well. they find it hard now and then to have to fight, to pray, to believe; but the Lord give them also joy and peace, 23 I visited Mrs Wagner who is anxious about her good eye; for she has only one good and now this one is so weak that she sees scarsly, she has headache, Anna was also in bed with a Catarrh Miss Minele Wagner who has not been well since her mother died, has now a Karbunkel in the right hand, which causes her terrible suffrigs night and day no sleep, she begd me to visit her again.

25 been to Hirsau Emelie was too, God gave us blessings papa spoke about on the 3d of John specially on the 3 last verses. the love of the father to the son and to those who believe in him, as his wroth on them who believe not, it was really given him from above to explain it to us, may have it be blessed for many. I paid a visit to Mrs. Oberamtman Fromm who sends you love, the son is still blind, makes many carpets, I hear again well just 8 weeks I became deaf. 26 saw Minele Wagner who has much pains, Christine not yet well. the D minds the inflamation may still return; on account of the pains she has still. love from Mrs W. and L and specially Annele Char*, Louise, Amile* Breise* Evethile*, 27 tired from knitting too quick, Hermann Gross is to take two Kittele to H. who expect a second child, Jettle has made you a very nice one, I will give you the same advice as Rochat gave me when I wrote him how much I had to do, keep every day a time for your and your God, you are to get from above the strength, wisdom and grace which alone can make your work to prosper. You can do much work, but it will not be blessed except you keep a quiet time between God and you. I have not followed his advice; and there fore afterward, have I been obliged to keep a long time quiet sighing in my bed much work without the Lord profits nothing, a little with him can do wonders Oh may you always obey the spirit, and as Mary sit at his feet Oh my sweet only daughter I thank you for your love
