No 16 Calw 22d </29>* April 1866

My dearest Marie.

Since three days we are looking out for a letter from you. the time appears to us long this time! The whole past week we had cleaning. yesterday specially I was with you in cleaning dusting the books in the behind sale. you were so quick and so diligent in doing that work. and how litle did I value it and thanked for it! we washed also your green covers of chairs and pillow on the box which you had made so nicely and when finished you called me to look at it. instead of showing mine astonishment and admiring it or at leat show some pleasure and satisfaction, no. I looked quite cool and even cross Oh Marie how blind have I been, often similar things as these occur in which I must condemn me and I can only comfort me in believing that the blood of Christ cleanses me and that you have pardoned me! We had a nice letter from Paul, he goes from faith to faith, he is faithful and minute in all things. afraid not to be quite true or to seek his own instead of God's glory. By this note of Herman <(geht zuerst an Sam)>1 you can see how he writes english and some thing of his feelings for him we have to pray specially that he may at last become a sinner for his own eyes. these days I read in Romans and find new light new life. Am I dead with Christ? that is, do I condemn myself fully and be burried dispairing intirely of me and of all that which comes from me than is fulfilled in me the 6 chp having first through the conviction of sin exclaimed oh wretched man that I am who shall deliver me of this body of sin. I realise then the description of the 8th Chp that is redemption and resurection by the spirit. Without death no resurection no life, this is God's way, men's way is, rice, live, without dying

23 your dear letters have come God be praised that all goes well also with Samuel. papa says that Eichelcaffe is nothing for India it's too hot. I trust that you may not want it: We are still cleaning and fancy the big lamp in the Sale put down by pieces and washed in water; Frau Schweizer has cleansed all 8 days work; but it is really clean nach Wirtemberg! I have also enough; during papas absence we have his room and some Matrases to renew. The old Mrs Schauber is ill it may be the last ilness; she has fever, if she could but believe and have the peace of God she would be satisfied. It does me good every time I see Schweigle that is a blessed soul full of love to his saviour to whom he is soon going it seams.

24 Your letter was read in the verein, much interest for you and the work. We should have washed today; but the Stutgarter children did not send their box! we have very fine weather, cold mornings the trees in blosom, Mrs Schmidhenner has been very ill; she recovers slowly. The Lord be praised for having helped Samuel out of his troubles. we were much grieved for him; but the Lord will make him fit for his work though humilation and knowlege of self

28 last night I dreamed much after you both you were very busy Charles was to pass examination and be promoted, you had a big dinnar to prepare etc Elisabeth Isenberg came on friday just to help me to prepare the wash to be ironed and Manged. this afternoon She is with Emelie in the garden and makes visits. Hermann Gross has written from Newyork he was not seasick, food plenty but not good, he has got work, but not so much as he could do, He begs pardon to his parents for having been so ungreatful. Heinrich is not at all better though he uses Vapours Steames, they will come for the Miss. feast also the Dekinger who were invited with the Wirz; but to see Blumhart they prefere come here, The girl of Mrs Zeller has come to spend three days; her Mrs. is not well, Matilde cares for her so no one shall come from Nagold. It is very hot here! what will it be with you! papa feels it already much, I pity him to have to make a journey, travel a whole night. Mrs Mögling seeks a cooking girl already several times in the papers, said 60 Gulden Wages.

29 to day papa had the bibel stunde for the Helfer who preached for the Decan who has much toothach. Mr Wirz is quite happy to have been invited for the feast. Roser and Wöhrle are to be kelner Since I dreamed so lively after you both, I feel you as it were very near, You pray for Herman I have confidence the Lord will soon bring him to himself, that is make him a sinner to his own eyes. And his dear wife may also be near to believe 
 Love to you both
 yours J.G.
