 Calw - Stuttg 11 Febr 66
My dear wife

This morning went with Jette to Altbg preached and had then the catechization. After dinner we returned and found all shut. However after some time Louise came back from Zav. whither she had taken the telegramm. Rud had gone to his rest soon after 9 AM it seems. It farther says that they will be back this night. Mrs Mayer who came yesterday for Z. to look at the household thinks a coach should be ordered for them. I do not know as yet what has been done. I had then the Miss. meeting and rested a while. 
Don't be anxious about the unbottled spirit, it will not be spilt, for surely God looks after his own. I dare say he is very different from Paul, he had also never cherished the same enmity agst God. It is quite right you stop longer, on his account too. Tuesday noon I shall have to bury Rudolph. 
I helped the Stadtf<örster>* feeling that I must do so for once, but wishing in my heart that some people come together to consider the matter. He was touched with emotions in thanking, but I felt a little queer on account of his not mentioning any one else to whom he may be indebted for assistance. (I sent it thro' Jette, and he came to me the followg day) 
Sophie from Altbg is also for several days at Zav. Thusn it is feared may be severely ill in consequence of not sparing herself as long as she could possibly be up. Old Zimmer looks better and is out of bed.

I send you Paul's with this and will now conclude, being rather tired with this day's work.

Did I write to you that Herm Gros was in, on Friday I think, when I prayed with him? Gradually it seems to me the Lord is opening his mind, but he will have a hard time of it, as he feels that he is the cause of all these severe dealings of God with the family. Don't forget the poor boy in your prayers!

 In true love
 Yours HG
