Herrn Frederic Gundert

 Calw 19 Jan<uar>* 1866
Dear Frederic,

It seems to me a very long time since we heard of you, have you so much to do, or are you still in bed? or is perhaps your heart sick, Cast down, discouraged? Oh tell us what it is, your letters rejoiced me always, even when very small a few lines: but now nothing at all! The Lord is still the same he changes not, you must believe and trust him fully. be not displeased that your conversion is not so striking as the one of Paul. God has his ways with every one differently: The chief thing is that we learn to distrust ourselves, dispise our selves, and keep close to the Lord who will have us like children, it is so difficult to be like children, We must study what is that to become like a child, how happy is a child in his father's love, No imagination in him, no doubts that he is not loved as much as any one else in the family. he pretends not to be able to do any thing, he lets himself be led. Oh I feel I must learn more to be like a child; especially in love how hard to love others if they are not according to our taste, the Lord makes no condition in loving; and we are also not to make; but love all that which is born from God. is it not dear Frederle it is some times hard! and so we have to die to self.

Mrs Wirz has visited me twice; for I have not been out since three weeks; but I trust I shall soon go, though I do not hear well. In Calw are many sick people, and many die, there is almost every day a burying. some time two in one day. Mrs. Steiger was by me, all her people are well als Gottlob who has much to do; but he seams to be happy;

I must say Adieu with love to all
 Yours J.G.
