 Calw 21 October 1866
My dear Frederic

Although I have written you not long ago I will prepare a few lines that when Marie's letter comes I may send them. To day we were in Hirsau, where also Mr Buser, his daughter Fritz W. Mrs. Lamparter, Schnierle Zahn Knor and others were too. papa spoke on the blind born man Schnierle was some what excited on account of his mother who reprouved him as he returned from the country where he had gone about to buy wine, she had sent him; but he paid perhaps too much or should have gone to another place! poor woman she lives still for the world and its goods which are mammon and the poor sons should like her be full of care how to gather more such mamon 
Julius Dreiss came to visit his Aunt; I met him; as he is but for two days here he could not visit us, He told me after inquiries after you that he has no time to see you nor David he has much to do; his sister who is also here told me that she fears for him He is not right with the Lord and therefore finds no time.

How are you dear Son? I hope that you had a good day and got through Gods word many blessings. I hope to hear soon from you

Love to all in your house
 Yours J.G.

1Zahn wünscht, daß Du ihm einen Schawl schickst, aber bald; einen wenn Du schon weißst, was ihm paßt (etwa 2 Fl 36 C glaube ich), ein paar, wenn Du für besser hältst, daß er eine Wahl vornimmt.

2Have you sent the Juppe to Paul if it is not clean send it to me. 
 1Calw 25th Oct 1866
My dear Friederich

Many thanks for your letter by which we see that through too much trouble you got headach, I am very sorry for it; but I trust that a good night has taken it away.

I regrett that I am still going to give you trouble too, that is about Meerretig if you could please ask perhaps the girl of Caroline or tante when they go on the marquet not expres; but when they go to buy for us for 1 Gulden of the biggest and finest frishest meerredig. pardon my troubling you and others you may send them to me at the end of November with your wash I will still write about the time you are to send it. Ask the people there whether one has now the new meerredig or whether one must wait longer to buy them excuse dear son I wish you a good time
 yours J.G

Love to all with you
