N 9 Calw <2/10>* January /66

My dearest Marie.

Today 2d Ja has Paul and David left us I trust the first is going with his Saviour who will keep him, he has often retired in his room to pray, for he was now and then much grieved when the Lord appeard him to be some what far from him, he read the bible much; although he told me sorrowfully "I do not understand it." The Lord has done for us great things I have heimweh after Paul. David is nice, I asked him, Will you not also come and pray with P. he then said "not now perhaps afterward" Pauline Summer has just been here, much love to you. her sister is as usual not worse, the little ones gave them much joy, when they saw the table coverd with good things on christmas one of them said with tears of thankfulness we will thank God and sing songs to him. Today is 8 days that I became deaf. but the inward distress and temptations, doubts, are heavyer than the deafness. Since 1847 I had not so difficult I think. to believe and submit to Gods will is so very hard, may you never have such time

Epiphany papa is in Kornthal, Jettle in Stutgart I had a better day than yesterday: after I could say to God thy will be done, to remain deaf or to hear, I felt quiet and happy. I had many visits in my solitude Emelie, her mother, those of the hous, and Herr helfer who had heard I am not well, he was very nice. The two Miss Herman from Liebenzel were hear asked much after you and send you Salam. Mrs Wirz too who came yesterday and today. Mrs Gross is ill obliged to keep the bed on account of her back, something like her old sickness brought on by the troubles they have with Herman, who has been obliged to leave the politecnic school; for he did not learn, made debts duelled etc he has no got a work in Stutgart, his parents would send him to America; but he will not go. Sunday 7th papa came from Stutg had just time to eat a bit and went quickly to Hirsau, to have Kinderlehr, the Minister is not well. To day came again a letter from P we need no more to wait till monday or tuesday, and how what for a letter full of prayers accusing him self having lost the presence or peace of the Lord weeping and sighing after it. What wonder of grace has been done, je beyond all expectation, how very seldon hapens such a conversion. It is altogether the work of the Lord to him alone be glory and praise.

Emelie Seger is very affectionate and tender, comes repeatly during Jetle absence. the more I see her the more I value her, she has a great joy about Paul. To day we expected a letter from you. I long to hear that you have reached your home, you have chosen a good text for your Marriage; and when tribulations and traials come, the Lord will also tell you "fear not believe only", ja believe that is not natural, hope against hope. Ah ja I feel it now it is from him to be able to believe when trials and the devil stand before one! but what? what is our faith if not tried as the gold in the furnaise. if the Lord stays near during the temptation all is possible; but if He withdrows as it were, how terrible!

It seams that you heard nothing about the poor Miss Will or Mrs Ward. I wish I could hear something about her. <(Nothing about Mr B?)>1 
8th again no letter from you, Mrs. Schauber paid us a visit inquired much about you, sends you love as well as her mother and Mrs. Schütz. The Laure asked Louise how I was having hear that I had a Schlag! you may imagine how people taulk. Emilia walked with papa, it is raining bad rodes, I could not have gone out.

papa's window was oped the whole after noon so warm it is! In the villages people had great diset of water, could not wash in Aldbourg they had to fetch it one hour distance.

Charl Weigle wrote to Jetle, that he likes yet his work and after 10 month he shall come to Stutgart With a Mr Roser. I shall be glad for him 
9th came your letter from Heidrabad, so you are in your home happy I rejoice for you all what you say interests us very much Oh dear Marie. May God bless you in his work and inable you to love all those commited to you, the great thing wanted is love and Oh Marie I have worked so long without love, these days I feel it deeply, that I have no love: how could I have loved you I have none or very little for my God and Saviuour. I wish to undertand what is love and possess it. is it a creature in the world like me without love? Had I love to God I would be pleased with his ways towards me to remain deaf or to hear; but I have much trouble to say fully thy will be done, by times I can; but there comes other time. My only wish should be to know to understand, what the Lord will teach me by this; but Oh je He will do it I must learn to believe to trust and keep quiet in Him. He will also give me love and forgive me forgive my want of love to him to you and to others. Oh Marie keep close to him in good days, that when bad days come you need not to be put deep down in temptation, He has promised to be with us through fire and through waters; but when faith is tried one feels Him no more. Oh what is that to feel alone, He has felt it on the cross, and therefore can now understand those who are so tried, He is high prist and will help. All saints have had hard kampf and in them learnd to overcome. if there were no occasion to fight there would be no overcommin no victory. I feel I must take courage, and through his grace learn to overcome, I have said so often to others one must overcome and yet I am like one who has forgotten all, and can only lament; Pardon that I write you such a letter; pray for me.

One expect the death of the daughter of Mrs Martin every day, the child is well

The Wöhles I see very seldom. She came once I cannot go out as long as it is so wet

Marie Monnard wrote lately sends you much love and best wishes. from Corcelles nothing. Mrs. Isenberg has sent me her photograf. she is very affectionate. longs to see in Abbert what we have the joy to see in Paul. Frederic is I trust brought forward through the conversion of Paul. Louise is pretty well she sends you love. I hope to have to learn the language does not give you too much trouble and if it was know that many sisters I know have often wept on account of its difficulty.

The Weiss like Frederic much take great care of him as your good Charls does of you I trust. love one another in the Lord. Do that which I have not done. May God lead and guide you
 Yours J. Gundert
