 1Calw 22 July bis <30 Juli>* 1866
Dearest Marie

Yesterday came yours of 18 June for which many thanks; I will no more grieve you with my complaints you are right it is enough. That you feel the heat is no wonder, in your state one feels it much more specially at night; but it will soon be over. Not only at the first child think every mother that she will die; but at every child; I hope you will have easier than I had, already the last 14 days I had pain for every one; it is nervous pain, if you have some be not afraid, keep your bowels open daily specially the last days. It is good you have ladies near who can tell you all about it; I knew nothing and had no one who could tell me anything, One day after dinnar I felt wet changed my cloth after half an hour it was again wet, and so till evening I did not know what it was, at night I had pain got up saw some blood on my shirt told it papa he then said I think your time is near, I, what to die? no to be confined, we had no body in the house no woman except a young girl, papa then sent to a lady he knew in Tellichery where we were since 7 days, she then sent us a natif midwife; but papa had to wash the baby and to do everything. the same day I ate carry and rice just as usual. I knew not how a mother is to live, on the second day I got up, but after my almira and drowes were in order I went again to bed; but got up again every moment; till I heard I might be ill for all my life, when the baby cried I cried too, for I thought he must be ill, having never seen a little one, at last came Mogling from Mang. who laught at me saying it is good for the child to cry, he made schlotser and all went better; but poor Herman wept during three month

29. last wednesday came Anna, Caroline and Charles, they have all gone to Hirsau with tow Arminian brethren, we could not loge them; Rosles Wirt took them by nigh for us. they go to morrow to Nagold. I am going to invite Elisabeth to come Suterday to sepend S. birthday with us then on monday she may return with our party Frederic went to Stut on the day our friends came, he is happy Nascht is ill, business is going on very bad. Paul and David are going on well. I am often dreaming that we are going over sea we may still once go to India - 1Dreams! you will say and so I say too! Ich bekam heute Nacht eine Katzenmusik für preußische Gesinnung. Dein V. 