 Calw 23d January /66
 <Mt Clemens 22 Febr 66>*
Dear Hermann

To day came your letter in which you discribe your long journey. the little one will have been pleased to see again her papa, As you get likely much news as well out of Marie's letters and of Samuel as of Paul. I will only write a few words, the news about Paul will surprise and rejoice you, we may all learn from him. where the Spirit of God works it is beautiful all christian can see and feel how they have lost the first love and that child like confidence that continual waiting upon the Lord to get a blessing, that earnest wish to be humble and small before his own eyes. Ah may God give us more such conversion in our children. Oh Herrman I hope you wish, you long to feel and experience something of the sort; such power of the Spirit, that self must bow and confess je I must die in order that my heiland <Saviour> may live and rule in me When we see our own self, that wicked heart of ours, we can but crie to God to take away that which is ours and renew us by his Spirit by his holy word, Oh it is something beautiful to have so hunger and thurst after God's word, I trust the dear Christine reads much god's word, I like to hear that you both talk on that subject. 
David is very nice; but for the present he does not think it necessary to be quite like Paul, it will come by and by; but in heart I believe he is not quite empty. His masters are pleased with him; also Mrs Steinkopf, with her little ones he is gentle and carefull. I regrett to hear that Christina's hand is still ill. I trust she trys the remedy I told her of in my last very diligently. If her hand is not thereby cured she will at least get some thing for which she may praise God afterward. I trust the books you wish for Julia will be sent you: she is now two years, talks well, has all her teeth perhaps? she will be glad to get a companion in proces of time; but perhaps also feel that less attention is given to her. With a kiss to Julia to her Mama and yourself
 Yours J. Gundert
