 Calw 30th March 1866
 <bis 8 April 66>*
 <in Mt Clemens 2 Mai 66>*
Dear Children.

Many thanks for your last. I will only write a few lines, as heard from some one here who had an Eruption perhaps some what like Christine and who has been cured by cold water application. that is kalte umschläge, on the wet cloth a flanel very warm kept that no wind can go through. You might perhaps try this at night. Here one uses these kalte umschlag for all sorts of sickness and in general it succeedeth well.

Today papa is in Stutgart from where he returns tomorrow with Frederic and Paul. I long to see the children David schall come afterward, it is a pity they could not be together here!

April 8th David came also yesterday so that we have much joy together. both are very nice; but specially Paul. he is quite an other person, much joy in the communion with children of God; afraid lest he should not be true in all things. trys to be small and humble, David too, which is much against their nature. Ah God has done great things for us. It is something great and beautiful to see the work of the spirit of God in such young people, He alone can bend the proud heart of men. Frederic learns also gradually to overcome himself and he has nice times.

What is doing our dear Christina; we think of her specially in this time which may be a trying one. I trust the Lord will help her through and give her much praises for His faithfulness and love. With kisses to you all specially to Julia I remain
 yours affectly
 Julie Gundert
