 Stutgart 30 May 1866
My dear Children <Hermann in Am>*

Here we are for the wedding of Gustave which took place yesterday. papa coupled them, spoke on the words My soul bless the Lord or rather bless the Lord my soul <Psalm 103.2.>*, the new cuppel were papa very thankful and I believe that many assistants were pleased and rejoiced to hear a wedding speach with out praises or remarks regarding the families. The dinnar was in the Museum about 60 and some. Theodor did not come, he could not on account of business, he sent a Telegramm while we were eating together, Our dear Paul was here too which of course made the feast complete for me, to be with my three sons made it easy for me to accept the invitation which otherwise would and could be no joy to me, to find myself in such a large party. It was altogether nice, at 6 O'C we accompanied Paul to the railway who went to Maulbron; He is very nice, fully in earnest with the Lord, finds it often difficult to continue the fight, crucifying the flesh with its lusts: but the Lord is very gracious who gives again joy and courage. 
David is also very nice Frederic has more difficulties, being very nervous seing things in black and doubtful. however the Lord helps through, it is a good thing he can be with Uncel Adolph, he could not do with strangers! tante Anna is a very quiet person full of love and patience. We have much to thank for.

You get this time perhaps fewer news than usual as Jettle is not here to copy you some thing out of Marie's letters, which are as ever very interesting and full of details about selbst, house, and friends, she would like to have more work with children; but people there do not value education for their children, except if they were paid to learn even sewing, however she has work for herself at least for an expected one; on account of which they have much joy. I have just paid a visit to Julia Gundert from Balingen who is with her mother; her health is much better than formerly, she can take care of her two children who were yesterday the amusement and delight of the whole party. they are indeed extraordinary nice something so innocent, so true; so natural that one can but love and admire them, they recieved of course all sorte of presents at the Wedding, and are full of joy I could have wished that a part of those sun abundent toyes were in America for the dear Julia who likely has fuw of them, however where contentment is their is happiness: She will have a great joy to see a little one in the family. I would like to see what she makes at the first sight or hearing the first crying! Now we come in the spring, I trust Christinas hand is getting better. Here the weather has been very uncertain so cold last week that we had ice in our garden and several things frosen the vineyards have sufferd a good deal. I hope tomorrow to go to Right<eut>*lingen and visit there Mrs Fink geborene Wöhrle from Calw Marie's best friend. I have scarsly seen Mama and tante, only at the Wedding, this afternoon I will see them with the Isenberg, one has to go so far away to find people from Olgastreet where we are. I have just seen Mrs. Steinkopf who looks weak, the death of her mother in law is a great trial for her, they were often together and very closly united, Mrs Hauff has also lately in the same house lost her little girl, who had already suffered from the journy from Indian; but now I must say adieu in hope to have soon good news from you all with kisses to you three if not to a fourth
 yours affectly J.G.
