 1Sunday evening 18 /66
 <18/19 Maerz 66.>*
Dear Frederic

I rejoice already of tomorrow to have a letter from you and David. I hope you had a good day that is the presence of the Lord, and food out of His word. Do you now find more in it than formerly? is it sweet to you like honey? I read over and over the 53 of Esaias, it seems to me I never felt like to day in reading about the suffrings of the Lord, it is good for us to read often about it, to see and feel the great love of Jesus melts our hard hearts, and only then can we also love a little, when these wicked hearts of our are melted. and only the knowlege of His great love, can enable us to love in return, like you felt towards tante after having seen how good she took your spot of ink. yes marks, beweis of love that touches our hearts, and there fore to read and study those parts which describe us his sufferings and agony for us do us good

Monday thanks for your letter You see the Lord gives us good things when we do not expect them nor deserve them, provisions we cannot make; but wait upon him every moment. he gives us from his fulness. that is the secret to draw from him every moment again fresh blessings. Have you still pain in your Stomak, it comes likely from the anxiety you had about the flecken. Did you pay Mama 48 C? Did you thank for me Mr Weiss for the prunes or Zwetschen?

I shall be glad to see you soon here together I will inquire about G. Steiger; but his father feared he would not be able to come on account of the scarscity of lehrers
