<No 15>* Calw 6th April 1866

Dearest Marie.

It is already a whole week since I wrote you of coure since Paul is here the time goes quicker I went also with him to Zafelstein where we found Tusnelde pretty well; but poor Heinrich just the same, spending his days in the stable because of his cough which is still the same, the dear people do not seam to take quite well from the Lord what he sends them "much trouble to submit oneself" Jettle is still in Stutgart. I saw to day Marie Finkh aimiable as ever, we talked of you. Our dear Paul is very nice he is quite an other person, when pious people come in the house he is very affectionate Oh what a change God has wrought in him in every thing; he seems to have sweet communion with the Lord. condems him self often. the Lord has done great things to him be glory and praise. I long to see David who is not well. Paul is also not quite well, somewhat diarrhea. also with David. Mr Schweigle is near his end it seems in spirit very nice Salutes you affectionatly with great many others in Calw

I wrote to Mrs Isenberg, beging her to allow Elisabeth to come to us for some weeks I wrote as if I wanted her help for the mission feast to help me. Tante told papa that E is not quite happy at home so we thought a time with us might do her good. I hope Mama and Hett* will come too after the feast. Blumhart is expected so we may get many people. To day Blaich is here he takes leave, goes to India. The bride of Schönhuth in Africa was also here. You have seen her here once with her mother <Kromer>1 a nice looking girl from Mezingen she has a small children school. her mother did not please you then,

Anna Gundert had in mind to come to us in April; but now she is also in hopes and will rather stay at home; to prepare the little things! Frederic was here two days, he is nice.

7th Comes your letters for wich many thanks your toothache is but the commun sickness in your present state nearly all women have it, I am very sorry you did not get the cloth you should have had for sheets table clothes etc had papa given you no order on Mr Pfleiderer?

Your schoolgirls seam to be like some parsis girls I had once in Tellicherry, not that they were poor; but would not work and stole me my needels and thread, about Krätze, each you must be careful, not to catch it your self which is soon done by touching the work they are doing with perspiration. Wash your hands every time with soap, it would be a bad thing for you and specially for the expected one, several of the sisters have caught it from the schoolgirls, specially Mrs Huber Fritz, the whole family. that country a chunam soap is the best against it. I have oft felt like a begining of it, biting screatching, and I rubbed walways my hands with that comen soap, even my feet after they <girls> had mended my stockings.

8th To day I staid at home while papa P. and David went to Hirsau. It is a real joy to speak with dear Paul, the Lord is very gracious to him, he has often communion with the Lord. And he feeds on his word, one feels the spirit of the Lord guides him. David is also nice Conrad gives him a very good testimony, even said to his people "I wish I could be like him" he is sorry that Hebich will soon leave Stutgart to go to the bath, he says he feels as if they had to lose their schepherd.

11th Julius Deselberger is with us, one had hope that the death of Rudolph G. had worked some thing on him; but it does not seem so, he is still a great talker shows gladly all his knowledge. If the heat is already so great now, what shall it be in May I pity you; for in your state ones fells it much more specially at night as one does not know how to turn one self. Mrs. Decan is still ill. I wrote to Mrs. Bühler to invite her for some time with Sophie. Papa will write to Elisabeth Makay, Elisabeth I. will come at the end of April. Mama and Caroline too. I have heimweh after David; it will be still more after Paul!

14th Poor S. he has to pay hard his want of caution I trust he will be free from the Miss and get a fit person for him and the work. Paul has already written, complains of his want of faith and thankfulness. We are to have the whole house cleaned next week afterward wash before the Mission feast. I feel you are not there for the portraits and many other things, furnitures, Godown etc. you have other troubels still greater than these of cleaning

Louise thanks and Salutes you. soon we shall hear again from you Believe and fight in order to overcome is our work faith alone helps trough. Adieu dearest a kiss to you both yours
 J.G.
