 Calw 9 Febr 66
My dear wife

I opened D's letter before yours and could but thank the Lord that He is so faithful and does such wonders beyond all expectation.

The picture books I sent off yesterday morning in all haste. D must have forgotten or overheard what was talked about the haste with which they were to be sent to U Türkheim.

Yesterday morning a telegram came from Urach, saying the disease was still on the increase and calling for Gros. Barth's girls got somebody to run out with it; when that was done I could no more work till Gros came. He dined a little with us, and was composed. The last night he had struggled with God in prayer and had received as he believed an assurance Rudolph was not to die. Still he distrusted this impression and went off calmly resigned, not without hopes, but prepared for the worst. In going he left his wallet (Reisetasche) with us, which I sent after him uncertain how soon it would reach him. Jettle then paid a visit to Thusnelde. Perhaps I have to preach at Altburg, and afternoon here Miss.Stunde.

Hannesle has come from Stammheim to say that his mother is considerably weaker, he evidently wished for a visit from you. Now he recommends her to your prayers.

Marie's letters I sent to Paul from whom nothing as yet has come. Marie had been much exercised about P during the Christmass feiertage and wrote to him about it. He will be much struck by this circumstance.

Just now comes the letter from Altburg and wants me for Predigt and Kinderlehre, which I shall take one after the other.

Am invited for a meeting at Bremen where the directors of Missions are to hold a consultation in May. By God's grace I mean to go if not prevented when the time comes.

Müller came and begged for Stadtförsters who are again in pecuniary distress. I will send something.

I hope your ear will give you less trouble when you are again accustomed to the noisy and busy ways of a Capital. We go on as usual. Emily walked yesterday with us and met again Jettle on her coming back quite to the top of the Schießberg

Love to all
 Your HG
