 Calw 12th June 1866
 <In Mt. Clms 4 July 66.>*
Dear Children,

Papa wrote you from Stutgart last; since then we heard of the birth of Marie. We thank God that all went on so well. May mother and child continue well! Julia will soon find that less attention is paid to her and may get a little Jealous. Christina must be satisfied with the gift which God has made her, He knows better that which is good for us. Many in our days in Germany would be glad to have rather daughters than young men who have now to go for the war, it looks really sad, to day the landwehr are going to Stutgart, the Horses of the districkt are chosen and sent away. Some young men for whom one had paid to redeem them from military service are now to go as landwehr! every where one speaks; but of war. Children of God are to keep quiet in their God and remember that the Lord comes as a thief in the Night. He may come during all these troubles happy shall be those who shall be looking for his comming, and love his appearing, the crown of life said Paul awaits them. In such time one is up to be caring for many things and leave sight of the most important yea of that which alone can keep us quiet and happy in the Lord. And you dear Children, Would you be glad if the Lord was coming soon? are you sure that you belong to his bride and that if He should come to day you would be taken with Him? If you are not yet sure of this Oh loose no time, be earnest with your souls and with the Lord. to be half Christians helps us nothing, it must come to a decision with us, Gods or world, the world is enemy of God. Since our three last sons are the Lords I have a joy unspeakable, specially to see how the Lord leads them closer and closer to Him, so that they can already discerne much between spirits and spirits, doctrine and teaching, and wish above all to be led by the spirit of God however much the flesh and self may have against it. Pardon that I write so short a note; but the news papa gives you better than I could
 J.G.
