 Calw 17-29 June 1866
My dearest Marie

I forgot in my last to tell you that in Stutgart I saw your Kornback who saluted us very affectionatly, inquired after you sending you kind regards. he likes his place, and looks just as he did in Calw. To day papa preached in the afternoon, he should have gone to Stamheim to preach and after he had been setled, asked the Decan papa because he had to go some where. I would have prefered Stamheim to this; for afternoon there are always few people. It seams that Hanesle is dying slowly. It is today so cold that we have warmed the owen. thunder and hail with a very strong wind. 
23 Friday 21 we heard that it is nothing with Tabitha W. we have also no news from S. to day papa is to have the Mission Stundy here. yesterday it did hail in Ottenbronn the grains were like small eggs. In Möttlingen a woman was struck dead with the lightning. Uranie writes that on the 17th they had such storm that trees were plucked by the roots, others brocken in pieces. Fritz has come from America I would have liked him to pay us a visit; but he has no great wish, he has forgoton German, and does not like to travel alone. If Frederic was here I would go to see them, specially since Uranie is ill, that is has a bad leg cannot walk. Frederic is very nice, the Lord be praised; he is really very different from that which he was, diligent at work and learning English and Frenche, he helps also Mr Wirz <and translates for Papa.>1

26 to day your letter was read in the Verein I am always glad when I can hear them again, it is very nice that you see so many people and have joy in the black and colored ones May the Lord make you a blessing for many, and give you new joy in the work committed to you, as well with grown up as with children, I have a great joy to hear that you love your little ones black and white, love is the only thing valuable before God, I trust also God will keep your health so that you may remain at your work with dear Charles. Yesterday Jettle went to Stutgart where she remains this week. In Calw is small pox, six person are ill and many children have the Scharlat fever. These days I think much of the parable of the 10 Virgins, the time is near where we shall hear the bridegroom is near may we be of those who shall tell to those who sleep the bridegroom comes prepare your lamps, or at least of those who shall have oil; but rather of the first. every day I have a new joy to think of the coming of the Lord, specially since our children are his property. You get perhaps little news this time as Jetle is not here.

28 Maria Fjelstädt was here from Tinach, her health is improving; but she looks exited and guiddy, her future is not yet well, he is in Wildbad. I am sorry we had no news from S. this time. Papa will send you the letters from Bale this time. tomorrow the last day papa will be here I espect plenty visits so I shall not be able to write a line it is feast day and Gustave Adolphsverein anniversary so that all the Pf with wives from our neighbouring villages will come to Caffee if not to dinnar some of them. Here people complain that it is hot, I do not feel it at all. but you how is it? have you still good appetite, can you sleep? Oh dear Marie I am so glad of the good news you can always give us. your love to the people near you, the Lord be praised for this grace to you, may He make you both a blessing for many.

A cousine of Jettle has just come from Stutgart a Miss Nast <from Plochingen>1 I must talk with her as Jetle is not here, Frederic says, she talks too much, he is not well disposed to lead her a little through the town. 
29 I hear that Schaufler is to speak. I will try to hear him. Thusnelde G. was here on her return from Tubingen, Heinrich is now quite well, will soon come home Marie Scheffel is still in Bale, Mrs Weitb quite well with her new born. Carl Sch. is a fine nice boy talking of every thing. as soon he sees me says Omama and seeks in my pocket, most time it is empty, but he is contented Hanely is his favorite, Poor Berta B. has been put in Verners Institution, She is a miserable creature the more one sees of her the worse she appears no truth in her. Adieu my very dear children with a true kiss  Yours J. Gund
