 Calw 4th-15 Oct 66

My dearest Marie

I paid a visit in Stutg Paul and self slept with Mrs I: she is very nice composed and quiet now and then heimweh; but on the whole well. Jetthien too, though they found it some what heard to have a wash without Elisabeth. I had a nice sunday with our three sons, David is not yet quite well. Friedrich makes I think progres in overcoming himself. he was happy, David somewhat less zealous; Since my return from St we had much to do, wood cutting, wash, mosting, and continually visitors, had we counted this year we would have found more than the year you had written them, we are since three month scarsly one night alone; Huber from Bale was here, he is a nice young man Paul Maul is now here I am glad of it for our Paul and for P.M. himself. he is more chearful than he used to be he studies with our P. saw and cut wood together this afternoon they have gone to Zafelstein Morgen to Liebenzel. Albert Isenberg was here with Mr Monier a teacher having 28 children under their charge, they make a little tour of four days, they slept in Rössles Wirth two nights, during the day they went about. 
6th yesterday came your letters we were all in expectation to hear of the expected one. To day Mrs Winkler visited us she sends you love as I told her you are expecting she looked sad and said I married before her and have not yet hopes: God gives that which is right could we but learn we would be taught by daily accurences, our faith and trust in God must be tryed in order to be increased; in the education of children specially this is the case, they are ill one is full of cares and through believing we become quite bold with our father in submitting too of course

14th Mrs Fink wrote a note to thank for a kleine Kittele sent in remembrance of you. Emelie took it there; Paul left us last thursday what a difference since last year at this time. He gave us much joy, you should see him reading his Bibel how he pounders upon it I made purposly for him a plumcake zwetschen, and gave him a piece of it at 10 oc after he had gone I heard by Steiger that he had twice brought his piece to Christian Steiger who has again bad eyes and is to be operated in Stutgart, the poor mother feels rather tryed, she expects an other little one, and has nothing prepared for him, as she did not expect one more; she had given away her things. He St spoke of Paul with tears in his eyes, saying "Ja such should we be, he makes questions just like a child, not ashamed to show he does not know such and such things". the feeling I had in the begining of his conversion is still the same, "behold he prays" as said of Saul. I found very often his door shut up, and he trys to confess his Lord to those he meets which is surely a way to keep alive and by which we are forced to pray more, many who are cold and sleeping would not be so, were they faithful to witness; for what have we been brought from darkness to light? Peter tells us. May you have grace dear Marie to do so, not only before the heathen; but also before the English of what ever Cast they may be. All the news you get I know through papa Emilie and Jettle So with a tender kiss to you three I remain
 yours J.G.

I really thought, my note was finished; but now I see that I have still a page, The cold is already setting in and it works or tells on my nerves; but this also I must overcome with Gods grace. Your birthday day is near, we shall specially think of you and yours, Your dear Charles will make it as nice and happy as possible I know. I thank him for it. it makes me really very happy and thankfull to know that you have so good with your dear husband, it is a compensation which quiets me, I trust dear Elisabeth will be happy too. I long to hear from her and Samuel. We are expecting Hebich here he shall have meetings. To day we expect Mrs. Krauss from Laufen she is Godmother for the helfer, she has asked to loge with us though I do not know her except through Pauline Moegling her friend. Poor Charles Weigle is not going on well, I wish he would come to Stutgart where one would see more of him. Mrs Seifried has been very ill and is still, the Lord is gracious to her, she learns in the tribulation to wash her gown in the blood of the lamb. The daughter of Kaufman Widman has died, they are greatly grieved he comes some time to Mullers meetings. Mrs Grauss is a nice Christian. Emelie and Jetle are in Liebenzel to the Conference, papa by helfer Mrs Scheffel is also patin <Pathin>* Now Adieu, we long to hear of the baby!
