 Calw 5th to <15>* June 1866
My dearest Marie

From Stutgart I had no time to write you a single line. I never had as yet such time there, I never sat down except to eat or when we had caffee once with Tante, once with Mrs. Isenberg, and once with Anna; where I met every time the Missions friends. Muller, Frey, Moerike, Wirth. With Mama and Tante I had not half an hour to talk except at the wedding. I felt very weary and low spirited. papa has already told you how we went about for a perle which could not be found, it was as if doors and hearts were riegled against us. poor papa spent some bad nights there, and had to get up very early to go with the train. and all in vain. all these troubles would be a small matter if Sa was right; but his last letter has grieved us deeply. I really thought he had been humbled through the last blows; and could take from the Lord the many annoying things which came from the brethren without much bitterness, learning under them to humble himself still more and being quiet till God would raise him up. A good opinion of oneself is a terible pride against which God must fight. I am glad dear Marie you feel your unfitness, unworthiness in Gods service, it is all right only small to your own eyes, than you cannot tumble from so high. the Lord will keep you from all evil, and make you a blessing and your dear Charles; how do I r‚joice and praise the Lord for his grace to him and for having given him to you, or united you together; yes you are beloved of the Lord dear Marie, and He gives you the the sweet after the bitter, thats the reverse of many in this world, I have had the same privilege and grace; may we be truly thankful and know it is His grace and love alone which makes it. I thank dear Charles for his tender love to you. it is an unspeakable sweet feeling to me as "un dedomagement" to you for my want of love; which you have pardoned I believe.

You know already that I was in Reitlingen, had joy with the dear Finks, they seem to be very happy together, their house and ways pleased me. She is not quite well, there may be a cause, one is not sure; but hope! Mrs. W. fears and rejoices at the same time. The Oehlers we affectionate, specially Marie! Elise is pretty well, however she complains that the fatigue affects her head; she will soon bathe in Boden Sea. I have invited her through Mrs. O. to come and spend some time in Calw. In Mrs. Reihlen's house I met Mrs. Fielstatd with her daughter Maria, the Mother looks very old, the daughter caughs since some months, and looks some what consomptive, she has not yet found the Lord, looks somewhat cast down at her bridegrooms continual headache consequences of his last illness, the health of both dearken there future prospects. The Lord is hard at them! Could they but see and learn! I had joy with the boys. Paul finds it hard to distinguish between duties and love, he is very faithful and conscientious in small things; David is very nice. Caroline and all give him a very good witness, one has observed that he seeks a place to retire often in the Deices* house he has but, "les priv‚s where he goes very frequently; does it not condemn us who have rooms and Kammers where we might retire as often as we like to pray? It is really beautiful to see the work of the Lord, He observes also, all that which passes round him and has a sharp smell of things whether Christslike or not. Dear Frederic, is not so quick, he lingers in the way; but he is the Lords and He will continue his work in him too. he feels that he is not that which he should be. Your dear letter comes on the 6th Many thanks for it, I have I think told you that during the four last monthes you should be alone if possible, even more is allright! Dear Charles is right to feed on the word of life that is the sure way to have a propre word and food for the souls committed to him, that the Way to know our Lord. He communicates Himself to us through His word, to me it is eat His flesh and drink His blood by which I have life. Yea abundances of life, Why are wee lean and weak? we do not feed ourselves from propre food, why has God called it word of life bread of life? and we are often starving with such bread at our right hand, Ah we are great fouls! how blind, how little do we understand? the Lord has still to repeat to us, as to the disciples, how do ye not understand, how slow of heart to believe, how fools, always imagining that we are something! the other day papa said in his prayer "entkleide uns von einbildung" Ah yes it deed me good I must repeat it again and again entkleide mich von einbildung, selbst Deuschung und selbst betrug. how do we cheat ourselves being blind and fascinated

7th We are puting the wood right on the bune, a propos, once as I was cross at least I suppose so papa related me of a woman who had been some time without speaking, being very ill humoured her husband at last went on searching about under the almiras, Cupboards etc she then asked what do you seek? your tongue was the answer! I often thought of this when inclined "A bouder" Emelie Seger is not well, her father is to keep the house 6 weeks after that go to a bath. Have I told you that one has a great deal of trouble with Beatha Bardh, she has had two children who died, she is ill on account of mercury she had to take much, one does not know what to make with her! nor where to put her.

12. To day it looks with us war like, the recrutes on one side singing, going to Stutgart, and the Horses from the country brought on the Brüll where they are to be chosen and taken for war, every where one heares; but about war, the children of God have to try to keep quiet and possess the peace which passes all understanding, in order to possess it we must consider and do what is told us in Philip 4.6.7.

The different bath places are almost empty. Mrs Gross who brought Emanuel to stay with us said that in Teinach, there are but a few persons, the musick is there in vain.

14 yesterday evening papa drunk sauer beier, after which I felt very anxious he might get sick. Louise related me how once her Herrn got so ill from sauer beier, this morning I quickly asked papa how he felt whether he had slept? why was the answer, because of the sauer bier, Samuel sauer bier you mean was the reply! Poor papa it gives him many bad nights, Ah if S. eyes were once opend to see himself? Marie take care it is a terible thing to have a good opinion of one self we cheet ourselves fearfully, and the Lord is obliged to treat us hard to put us down a little, we wait anxiously for an answer from Werner. May God give S. a wife able to help whom he would feel above him or beyound him in spiritual life.

Beatha Bardt came unexpectedly to the Mädele Annele is much grieved that Herr Widmand does not try to do something with her, Anele has written to one of her relation to take her if possibel, poor girl, she looks so young and really nice, she wishs to get a place; but her health is not yet good, and who will try to keep her? Now dearest Marie to you both a tender kiss from yours
 J. Gundert

Uranie has much pain in one leg, she must go to the bath in Baden I shall perhaps visit her when papa goes in Bale. Fritz has come from America. 