 Stutgart 30 June 1866
Dear papa

I came here quite safe, could just come to the house before I had to go out; found that Elisabeth is in Kornthal; After the mama had shown joy to give her daughter I beged to send for her; for by writing she could not be here before tomorrow 10 Oc. Jettien went then to fetch her, we except them about 6, this evening, I shall shut up this after her arrival, the mother says that she seeks the Lord looks out for communion with pious people specially with the Mullers, has written to Marie in her last (the mother read it in secret). I wish I were converted. I envy the peace the joy of E Muller I would like to open my mind to someone. When I was in Calw, I would have like to speak with your mother. She began once; but some body came who interrupted us etc the Mother gives her a very good testimony. 
Yesterday they heard of Peregrina having come to Liverpool on the 22 June, her husband came to meet her, the surprise was of course great to find him in Engl. and, her mother in Law and sisters recieved her most affectionatly a brother who is minister 16* miles from the place where they live would have gone to recieve her in Liverpool if her husband had not come, She seams to be much pleased with his family. she intends to come in August after they have gone in their new logi, David I have not yet seen; but I will try to see him, no one knows that I am here, I told Mrs. I about E Muller her mother had been asking here whether S. had a bride, also Mrs. Frey both asking "have the Gunderts told you nothing."

I have just been by Steinkopf, David was not at home, on my way I went to Mama where David had just been, I hope I shall see him the evening. 
Dear Elisabeth after question said with much weeping I am not worthy; on my asking whether she wish to work for the Lord, she yes; but I am so unfit. I made her courage, and she consents to take Samuel. Now I cannot tell more Adieu, it is from the Lord I feel it
 yours J Gundert


1Lieber Vater.

Ich komme gerade von der Bergstr; der gnädige Herr wolle seinen Segen dazu geben; er bringt viell. auch den lieben Sam wieder ganz gerade. Noch soll ich Dir sagen, daß Frau Müller in Basel ist, Du es ihr also dort sagen sollst. Die arme Mama ist viel gelaufen, auch wegen mir. Ich wünsche Dir alles Gute vom Herrn in Basel.

 Es küßt Dich
 Dein David
