<An die London Miss Soc. für ihre Gabe an James Lechler.>*

 <16 Mrz 66>*
1Rev. and dear Sir

I have to thank you for your very kind letter on the subject of the unfortunate son of my late friend Lechler. The case is much as you have been given to understand. He lives with his uncle, John Christian Lechler a pious farmer, who enjoys the confidence of the community Münklingen 7 E. miles from this, so that they have chosen him to be the magistrate or mayor of the village. Poor James has tried many homes, and in none has he found the same love and patience, combined with the needful measure of firmness. It was then less by an agreement than by the natural course of events that he at last stopped with the uncle not exactly thankful nor anxious to please and help, but rather haunted by the idea that he is a born gentleman ill used by fortune, hoping for chances, dreaming and now and then meditating on a change. He is therefore a real burden in a family of laborious habits, and they have now and then hinted they would not keep him for any consideration should the good old father die. The latter kept him for Christ's sake but felt somewhat annoyed, that after his brother's death the sympathy shown by the family to James seemed to be waning; but when the cause of the irregularity of the supplementary payments was explained, he agreed to keep him on the understanding that myself and the godly minister of the place Rev E Reinhardt form with him a sort of Committee to arrange about these matters. Mrs Lechler mentioning the sum of œ 15- per annum, the uncle feared that was too much; but Mr Reinhardt and myself find it just reasonable the thing as it would provide for any change that might be found beneficial or necessary with the fickle boy, be it only for a temporery relief of the family from the continued pressure. Should the noble uncle die, we hope to find some Christian man in humble circumstances ready to undertake the same charge with this moderate aid.

I would not have thought of applying to your Society for a grant in behalf of the young man, but if the Board deem it right to take his case into consideration, I am glad for the sake of the family. You might in this case consider Mr J. Chr. Lechler, Rev. Eugen Reinhardt and myself as trustees for the grant made to Mr James Lechler. The remittance might be sent to me, either direct or through my agent, Mr Ch. Young, 8 Highstreet, Islington. 
16 March 66.

P.S. I am no D.D. merely Dr ph (or A.M.*)
