 Calw 24-31 August 66
My dearest Marie

Many thanks for yours of 19 July. I think much of you in these days as your time approches. God be praised for his goodness and faithfulness to youward, last sunday we had Jungling Verein about 60 peopel. To day brüder conference, I regrett that papa is not here for it, more than hundred peopel are in the sale; Mrs. Süskind is with us she bathes by Schnaufer G'mama told her what a deal of good the bath had done her. so she would also try them; but till now she is not quite satisfied.

Johana Schaufler is betrothed to her fathers Vicar <Riderer>1, she is obliged to live out of the house <Consistor. verbietet daß Vikare bei Bräuten wohnen>1, she will return when he goes away; they must wait 6 <?>1 years before they can marry.

Mrs. Fink Wöhrle was here as lovely as ever, she does not look well; but we know the cause, she told me that if a girl is born she is patin as you for her.

You know that we are to be witnesses of Jesus as such you have gone to India, to witness. you find it perhaps easy to do it before the heathen but your are to witness also to your other friends, those English near you, to the soldiers with whom you come together, we are to lose no opportunity to warn the believers and call the unbelievers, dear Marie the time is short. the bridegroom is at the door, let us not sleep to have to prepare our lamps when he comes, no we are to tell others that he comes and try to awake them.

28 Elisabeth could take but one pair of boots for you having already packt and no room more; the thread I had long ago paid mama for one box the eau de Cologne you get from Jettle as the pretty bags or necessaire a coudre for your girls. To day is Ch Schefels birthday they have made many Cakes, The bride is coming on Monday with her bridegroom for a fourtnight. Does Charles put on Woolene socks we have given Elisabeth 6 pairs for him from the Verein. 31 Yesterday I was in Stutgart in one day went and back with David the same evening he is not quite well. I took leave of Elisabeth they were all well

Adieu dear children
 Yours J.G.
