<No. 11>* Calw 15 February 1866

Dearest Marie

first feb papa has gone to Stutgart to have the Mission's feast in Felbach, from one till 5 oc I paid visits 8 at once, saw Mrs Decan, who is still in bed; but well; with her new born. they feed that child with Haber schleim with which he thrives very well, however Dr Schitz says that eichel Caffee is still better, schall I send you some? for diarrhee it is certainly very good. The little one of the Statdfürster is very miserable, gichter womiting, crying, the mother is also poorly. I am still deaf of the right ear; however very thankful that I can hear of the left though not quite it comes gradually, it is good to have to learn patience trusting the Lord, who does all well. ja gewiss all well. I would like to see you making your tea, the morning waiting for a cup of Caffee, saying perhaps tausend how long shall I be so sickly?

2d Jettle and I paid a visit to Mrs Hermann, two daughters were there, they asked much after you, also Mrs Dörtenbach whom I saw too, she is much cast down, weeps much, full of cares for this and that one relation. Schnirle paid us a visit I made to relate how he was brought to the Lord, it went on all between him and the Lord no one helped any thing, he knew no other christians, lived with God had the pardon of his sins, Only after 2 or 3 years he became acquinted with Zahn, his parents took from him all pious books and said he was melancholic. it is a real joy to see that young man, seeking every opportunity to do good, with books, gifts and visits. 
3d Mrs Gross came on her way to Urach; for Rudolph is still very ill; Emanuel, better, Tusnelte not well, can scarly walk for peins in her members. Herman: the same will go to America, he was begged to wait a little till one sees how it goes with R; but he will not; what has he to do with others, he must go now. I thought much of you being so sickly the whole afternoon, from having drunk milk which had been boiled in a sauspen which had been for some days on a piece of bread wher gift was put for the rats; as Louise self felt sickly too and bothe in drinking the milk we had said what for a smell of phosphoric in the milk, rememberd that the sauspen had bee on that "gift".

papa returned from Felbach saw poor Moerike who is not well, Mr Schwarz is with us, his wife could not come being not well, at the end of April they go to India, Papas birthday 4th they are in Aldburg where papa preaches for the Pf who is not well. Schwarz will then have a Missionstunde. 
Mr and Mrs Kruner came for the birthday of Caroline Kruner, quite unexpected, so today they were 14 to dinner by the Weitbrecht. The little one is nice and gives much joy, he is really a good boy.

5th Louise fell down and has hurt her left arm but I trust it will soon be better, today came a nice letter from David, the Lord is seeking him Rudolph is still very ill his Mama wrote,

12. Stutgart you see here I am with tante Anna, why I am here, is properly David in whom the Lord is also working; but it is more difficult with him, he is not broken as Paul was, he is so lively; that he looses soon the graces God gives him; however that which the Lord has began he will also carry it on to his glory. We are led differently. The dear people here are very nice, the two brothers better than formerly, the 3d Gustave is just ingaged to a Miss Pfeifer a nice young lady I am to be with them tomorrow the mother is a widow with her only daughter, I have strongly invited the dear Isenberg to spend some weeks with us; they will come during summer, I will still spend an afternoon with them.

15th At last in Calw again, there is no place like home. Other people do not seem to want rest and quietness, At least I found none in Stutg though I was there 8 days; by dear Mama Isenberg there is perhaps some; but I was very short time with her; they came together to Mama where we spent an afternoon, David is nice and Frederic too The Lord has done us great grace in our familie jea unspeakable mercies.

Anna ist somewhat troubled about her housekeeping, her being very slow at work makes her uneasy; she is a precious soul, always accusing herself as the cause of that which may be wrong in the house, till now hope of family, love from the whole house to you Mama Tante as usual, Pardon such a short note; more an other time. A kiss to you both
 Yours J.G.
