 Calw 4th September 1866
Dearest Marie

Yesterday we were in Nagold; there were many land leute, because Mr Werner had been expected, he did not come, being not well, the Gentlemen and ladies who knew you asked all after you, saying how glad they were to read your letters in the Calwer Blatt. Mrs. Zeller was pretty well nice as ever; there were not so many visitors as usual; Mrs Decan very much afflicted on account of the death of their two sons, the last died the evening of his* sister s marriage day, no one anticipating such thing he was found dead in his bed; but he was consumptive, the sister who was with Haering some time sends you kind regard, she was very amiable and kind. Charles Weiss and David were with us they were pleased of their trip David is again well; it is a pity that he has to return to Stutg just on the day Paul comes. 
5th I went to Dr Schütz with David, he is to remain with us still some days; so it is nice they may be a couple of days together with P who has come. he looks very well, Samuel is happy at his bride, we had yesterday a letter it is for us a great relief. I believe they will be happy together. the more I see Elisabeth the more I like her. her mother shall get yet more money from England. Mrs Weitbrecht has advised her strongly to apply for help from a fund for widows from which many, who require it less than Mrs. I. get money. Repetent W. is here with his bride they remain a fourtnight here. Louise sends you love, I wonder whether you are still up 
7th yesterday I saw Mrs. Schauber and Schütz, both asked wher there were hopes of a baby by you; in one of your letters you complained of tuthache which is a sighn of something; they were much pleased to hear that in these days, you were expecting; they send you hearty love and best wishes, the young Mrs S is in Teinach. 10th papa went to Stut with David Charles W. and Paul, although we got up very early the two brother P. D. were so long dressing that the post went away without them half past four, poor Charles who was the last lost his things on the road in running after the others, a man came to me with a pair of drowers, saying "I suppose this belong to one of the young men who were running after the post," in our coridor his spunge and soap had already gone out of his bag. I begin to wish for some rest, we have had continual visits since some weeks. Fritz Fillinger has been in Europe during some months, he returns to America on the 12 Sept. Uranie writes that she is not better. Since the 5th we are looking and longing for a letter from you; but in vain, papa said I want something the two soon in a hurry asked what is that papa "a letter" I hope we shall get two at once; as you did once from Charles, happily that Samuel s letter has not failed we got it sooner than ever. I felt specially glad for Elisa who should have left her mother without a word of S. had it gone like yours! I hear that Theodor with Johanna and children are in Stutt Frederic writes me a nice letter from St, he sais "die heutige loosung in meinen buchlein heisst thy word have I hid in my heart Ps. 119.11. wie hat das der Psalmist wohl aus ganzen herzen sagen können, ich will es ihm nur nachlallen, es ist so schön dass Gott der anfänger und vollender ist, er hat etwas angefangen er wirds fort fuhren in mir, und endlich auch zum ende bringen, ich will mich ihm und seinem Geiste ganz heimgeben. Dann ist man bei Ihm zu haus, und ganz selig bei Ihm, ich wollte dies stande mir immer vor augen und in herzen; wie wär ich dann imer frolich, freude und friedevoll, dann musste alles traurige, finstere, weichen, doch ich bin noch in dieser Welt diese sachen mussen mich anstürmen, doch sollen sie mich mit Gottes hülfe nicht uber stürmen und uber wältigen. Der Herr und ich als sein Kind werden doch und müssen zuletzt uber dies alles Sieger bleiben. ich bin heute ganz lustig und fröhlich, weiss dass ich Gott habe der mir hilft. This morning Marie und Martha went to Stutt in eile, Jette said it must be a marriage affair, now comes a Telegram Martha is bride with vicar Schmid brother of Mrs Hauff and eigner. it has been quickly done, he is already vicar 11 years by his father. Mr Buser with his yunger daughter are here he has some work in Walkmüle for F Wöhrle they all send you hearty love; The young Mrs Mersch in the 8th month of pregnancy took up some thing heavy, soon afterward she felt ill the Dr were called who delivered her of a dead child, her own life much in danger, you do not try to carry your husband as you did me or some one else. Mrs Dr Mayer died yesterday after having brought forth her 14th child. One made her to bring forth 6 weeks before the time because she had the dropsy was much swollen or full of water, the confinement went on well the child lives; but she was too weak. We expect the Barmen people here 
1Da es dießmal sonst kein Plätzlein gibt nimm hier einen warmen Gruß und Kuß von Deiner in inniger Liebe verbundenen Henriette.
