 Bremen 8 May 66
My dear wife

So you see that I arrived here safely and got the letters soon after my arrival. I send you some of it for giving to the boys etc. and have it read to you. He <Sam>* was really ill 26th of March when his legs would no more support him. 27th even fainting fits of which he lost all remembrance. Very probably the consequence of that stupid march from Vadagara to Cann. in one day!

I staid 1/2 hour at Bietigheim. There was a woman with an orphan 2 days of age the mother died and the child had to be taken to Stuttg. Then with Beringer from Stuttg. who asked after Heiner of course (he to Worms). Saw Strobel and his wife and son, the latter 2 only for a moment. Please open Strobel's letter to me and ask Mr Weitbr to execute the commission without delay. Long night in carriage with a German American from Georgia, formerly slave holder. At Hannover 4 hours sleepless stay for the morning train - 4 hours on account of untimely coffee drinking. The sleep would not come. Took here a Droschke to Vietor's whilst he was at the terminus looking out for me. A wash and then to the gentlemen 30 and some in number and had to propound and defend my "theses" - all went well. Hoffmann presides. Vietor's send many Selams. At Hannover I heard of the crime at Berlin and brought the news here, where the newspapers came after me. People don't care here much about war and peace, very different from Stuttg where all is pretty much taken up with the political questions. Now farewell. 
Send the letters to the boys - I should have done it but do not like to make them pay for 2 letters at once. Plenty Selams from all here to you all esp from the subscribed to his wife, as from a dutiful husband  HGdt
