 Calw 20th Oct 1866
My dearest Marie

To day we were looking for letters; but in vain, on the 18th your birthday the faithful Emelie, Marie Scheffel Martha with their cousine Weitbrecht from Schondoorf were with us Eugenie Dreiss came also to see us, she is still very nice, has not loost her first love, she confesses the Lord to every one, her poor Aunt Ramsberger is displeased with her piety, her own mother some what too; her brother Julius is not going on so well; the mother and Miss Faber percieve that he is cold and are sorry for it. while the tante here sais your brother is much more aimiable than you, Pauline Steiger is also nice they were here together with Eugenia. 21 I am just coming from Hirsau where Mr Buser his Louise Fritz and Mrs. Lamparter came too as extraordinaire! poor F. was very sleepy, I toalked with L she is nice, her health is quite restored; she is so upright, that one sees nothing of a shoulder having been higher than the other. She sends you hearty love. they will return to Bale, after 10 or 12 weeks of absence. we have been again looking in vain for a letter from India, people who know what we are expecting ask continually have you no news? I nearly wonder at my patience when other people are talking so impatient to know how it is with you, but we have a father who does all well, and because we trust Him we can be quiet waiting upon him and for his time.

22d Came your long desired letter dear child the Lord be praised that you had such a good, clever Doctor It is a great pity that you were so excited the last days before the confinement, it would have been probably more easy, you had lost strength and courage, and your nerves very iritated; I thank God too that you had a good midwife. The Lord who has helped so far will help farther; I regret with you that you cannot nurse, the child would have likely taken milk rather than arrowroot none of our children would take Canje; Christianele was fed with milk almost after her birth as I was not well. we got a cow for her so that she had always the same milk and fresh; but it is good you have one Ama, one is quieter with a woman; specially for the first child. Be not anxious dear Marie for the future in any way, God will make every thing well; believe only that this trial has been sent for good and through which I am quite sure you will get many blessings 1 Tim. 2, extr. be of good cheer try to realise what is Gods will and pray much for faith and trust in God, you want it more than before, now, because one gets fears and distrust through trials; but Gods will is to teach us just the countrary; to drive away fears and create faith in Him alone. At Samuel confinment or Herman I was also torn by natural exertion, it has never been mended, I was afraid that the birth of an other child would make it worse; but it was not the case. On Theodors birthday was a fine text, we have hard to believe it when the trial is upon us.

26 The Busers have returned to Bale; they are nice dear people, as soon as your <Charles'>* letter came I went to Mrs. Wöhrle, Louisle read it; two days before it came I dreamed that I sow you in bed with a baby having a big schlatser in the mouth, Mrs Traub expect a child poor woman, may God help and ashame our unbelief. Mrs Deuschle has been confined this week of a big boy, after many fears all went well and quick. Mrs Steiger expects her 16th she is often very low spirited, the little boy is in Stutgart in the hospital because of his eyes which were again inflamed, the Dr said that a few days more without remedy the poor child would have been blind, poor people who have large family are to be pitied, the potatoes are not good bread which costed in your time 12 or 13 creuzer costs now 20. Wilhelmina Schweizer is with Mrs Wirz for a few days, she send you much love as also all the people who know you

We are anxious to hear from you, though I have confidence that the Lord has restored your heath; after having put fears in your heart: He will create faith and trust through his loving kindness, you will soon see that to have children is a continual exercise of faith and dependence on the Lord, fears and cares bring us to the Lord; for we soon find out that nothing else will do, if we learn this God's intention towards us is realised and we afterward have but thanks and praises to God who leads us so wonderfully; but learn we must; the sooner the better because God does not let us escape and we soon find that He is a tender father; but jealous; by Him we must remain, his honnour alone have we to seek.

Adieu dear Children. thanks to dear Charles for his love and cares during the good and trying days. If the spiritual children give you as much trouble as your own have patience and love them
 yours J.G.
