 Calw 15th May 1866
 <in Mt Clemens 6 Juni 66>*
My dear Children

Many thanks for your last I am glad Julia has got her picture book. Dear Herman you thank much too much for such trifel. Had I been sure Hermann Gross would deliver you the paquet I would have with much pleasure send you a Worm blanket, I had it already in the hause; but we were not sure. If you were near us we would surely have a great joy and do all what we can and what a joy would have Grospapa to play with his grandchildren I still trust he may once have this joy to see you all, by this time has dear Christine been safely delived I trust and Julia has a brother or a sister. All that which you relate from Julia and her mama interests us much. I feel we are daily more and more united. for I have no doubt that the Lord will also make you and your wife members of the above family or of the Spiritual family in which alone we feel a real union. yea your letters show that you are not satisfied with yourself, it is the first step towards the Lord. After he has created within us a longing after some things better than that we had hitherto. He gives Himself to us; so that we feel we are nomore alone, Last Sunday <13. Mai also denselben Sonntag, da er von der Bremer Reise zurückkam>* papa had a meeting in Hirsau as usually, he read the 6th of John and God gave him grace to make us to understand why one stays so long away from real life, from living faith and why even those who have already believed are still so lifeless and cool; the cause of all this is a real want of hunger and thirst. In the old and in the new testament, the hungry and thirsty are called and the promise is that they shall be filled. Of course as long as we are satisfied with self, there can be no great longing after the Lord and his rightiousness, it is a mystery that only poor and babes find, just as in the days of our Lord; who praised his father that those things were revealed to babes and sucklings and hidden from the learned and wise men. In 1 Corint 1 Chp we see who can understand those things given us in Jesus. that no flesh may glory except in the Lord.

The Lord is very gracious to Frederic, Paul, and David, they have grace to continue in the way of faith; and though now and then it appears hard they get new courage and are carried forward. they also began to speak a word of witness to their Lord, they do it in fears and trembling; but is it the right way, distrust oneself in doing this we learn to trust Him alone. We are all invited to the marriage of Gustave I am glad I shall then have an opportunity to see our three sons. The bride is not indifferent to the truth. I hope Gustave will be no hinderence to her, Elisabeth Isenberg has been with us a fortnight. the only brother Albert has just entered in the Institution of Mr Pfleiderer as book keeper, so the mother has only the two daughters at home. however she seams to be troubled with cares, as she looses a good part of her property which is in the hand of the brother of Isenberg who does not understand his work. and is always without money. Now dear Hermann and Christine dear Children I send to both a tender kiss to Julia still more kisses from yours
 J. Gundert
