 1Calw <16 Mai - 1 Juni 1866>2
Dear Marie

16th yesterday the letters were sent to you. it was vereinsitzung it went on well. Mrs. Werner was also here; she brought me a note from Sophie, who is still not quite well but happy in the Lord. I injoyed Mrs W. visit very much. Mr Mesner was very affectionate she would not come. In Stamheim the Minister and Jacobly are very bitter against the Methodiste, one hears nothing but on this subject. Mrs. Seger, Emelie, Miss Fisher are drinking tea with us. they all like to hear something from papa; but he is so very tired that I fear the ladies will have little of him. the journey and Sitzung were a little too much and the unhappiness to find his things in disorder; for his tabels were cleansed; I really pity him, so terribly to do and finding nothing! today Muller makes the box which is to be sent to you with the books the book are not so nice as we would have liked, a few neck hankerchiefs will do for the girls who shall hem them well. It is still so cold that one must make fire more than once a day, our beans are frozen. 17 yesterday evening was very nice papa was fresh, related much of Bremen, our three ladies were much pleased. Miss F. specially very thankful, she seams to be very nice.

20th to day papa preached in Liebenzel the Minister there having a chathar. from there papa will have the meating in Hirsau; but I cannot go to it to my grief; I have headach I must keep at home not to be exposed to the wind. We had a long letter from Mrs Ward. Samuel will send you a part of it. tomorrow is Stamheim feast Rieger is here who will help too. I have invited Mrs Moerike to spend some weeks with us, one says that she is much sustained in her trial. Frederic wrote that R had a beautiful speach at his grave 23 About Stamheim feast others will write you, whose business fit them better than myself who cannot write. I am grieved and much wexed at Josenhans <Ausschuß in Malabar!>2, writing regarding Samuel as if he was not pulled down enough poor fellow <das ist ein Mißverständniß von Ma>2, It is really too hard to ask or take the right to chose a wife for him as if they could do better than his father. I hope the Lord will give him grace to submit, nature can certainly not the first feeling would be I have done with the Comity; but god can enable him to take it well to humble himself, and with me learn to pray for such if not just enemies such as against whom a bitterkeit has been unjustly raised and provoked. It is good that papa can take the thing quietly, and deal wisely! but I see that those <(sie meint Reinh.)>1 who can flatter and speak fine to J. are the wellcome. it is a curse for the Mission 25 Marie Monard begs very hard that you would once write to her, <welches aber nicht so nöthig ist.>1

26 a thousend thanks for your good letter: you are too good too kind to write me separatly. When the parcel came some days ago with papa's dressing gown I could have wept for joy. no! is it possible I wish we could make you such joy as I had in seeing those things sent by you. Anna expects also a little one. I bring her a few things for the Stranger, probably this will be send from Stut, where we go for the marriage. the hope to see Paul with his two brothers makes me joyful. from there I shall visit Mrs. Fink where also Mrs Wöhrle is and will remain till I come. The cold weather has ceased it rains and it's warm, many things have been frosen, during the last week. 
Uranie and H send you much love, the first has pain in one leg; she can scarsly walk; it is probably Rheumatism. I have not yet heard of the watch it is probably not finished; but trust Samuel's future may bring it you. It is no easy business for poor papa, to look now or ask for any body, the story is known, and still be more known, as Marie Scheffel is in Bale for the confinement of Mrs. Weitbrecht, the trampet will sound far away truth and untruth. We have invited Mrs Bühler to come to Calw; but she has not ansewred, <hilft Herrn Williardts, dessen Frau gestorben ist>1 
Rikele Haas is in Göppingens Anstalt. Emelie is in Stutgart because of her ears she is much more deaf than she used to be. Lately I paid a visit to Mrs Kameralverwalter in Hirsau, she seamed to be a nice woman, she goes regurly to the Stunde when papa has it also Clara Feltweg in Hirsau. to day 27 papa has Mission Stunde in Calw. Mr. Mrs. Gross with all the children were here yesterday, the Grandmama from Korndhal came to go to Zafelstein, Hermann has written them a nice letter, need of work and of food has made him to pray, after which he got work. Heinrich is in the Hospital in Tubingen, the cough or barking as the people call it, is less frequent; but he is very light minded, likes to read amusing books only:

1Wir besuchten ihn ja in Tüb. Er hustet oder bellt jetzt 30mal in der Stunde, früher 60mal, wird electrisirt und dergleichen. Mama sah Carl in Reutl, ehrlich, aber etwas stolz und eingebildet. Ich hoffe es thut ihm gut nach Stuttg versetzt zu werden unter andere Leute. In Reutl hat es seine eigene Haken. Frau Wöhrle mit der Mama schlief, war sehr herzlich. Über Krieg etc kümmert sie sich nicht, hofft, alles werde noch recht werden. Hier in Stuttg kommt man kaum zu rechten Gedanken. Sagte ich daß Mögl's Bruder Theodor, der Seidehannes seinen Verstand verloren hat und nach Göpp gebracht werden mußte? Er soll etwas haben verlauten lassen als sei er wie besessen gewesen in seinem Denken und Wehren gegen Gott und Bibel. Nun ich hoffe er thut noch Buße. Sein Vater war dieser Hoffnung voll bis an sein Ende. Lebet wohl
