 Calw 2d July 1866
Dear papa

I returned yesterday evening. here all the people who heard of the betrothing of S. and E. were exceedingly pleased, she has pleased every one here with whom she had to do. and I think she has more life than we thought, I believe that Samuel is cared for by God in this matter.

I write specially to tell you that, the paquet you expected from England is arrived. Jettle remains in Stutgart till friday than comes with Mama. On Monday Mama would sent off a letter to Samuel and I told Elisabeth to write a few lines to Samuel if she could. Adolph has sent off his servant and lehrling. things are looking very dark and driery, I was reminded of revelation 18.11.

Mrs. Wöhrle too who till lately was courageos and kept on giving work to people in hope it would soon go better, was today very sad and discouraged; for they must dismiss some of their people. Lamparder was very grieved too, they are for Prusia. I visited Mrs. Schauber who said what a pity that Germany has consented to help the Austriens.

3d I am just returning from Stamheim the frau Reiter was in trouble for her son who whad to be examined and perhaps sent to war; but the Lord be praised he is spared on account of a weak leg, our dear Schnirle is not spared though his heart is too large, and often palpitations, one said it is unbedeutend, his poor mother is greatly distressed I went to her, she would have paid for him; but he said he wishes not any one to die instead of him! Gustave has arrived on his way to Wildbad, I have not yet seen him, he does his work. All the people are so glad that Elisabeth is chosen for S. In Stamhein the sick people are some what better, the husband of Mrs. Reiter is better on Sunday he will go to Hirsau if you have the Stundy, he heard me gladly, the poor woman is full of thanks, though some what still melancholy, frau Ritter full of joy in the hope the Lord comes soon, a voice tells her always, the Lord comes soon; With the Pfarers all well, 
Now Adieu
 Yours J Gundert

I have still hope that before we send this off letters from Indien may come, we will soon inquire

from India nothing
