<No 14>* 1Calw 30 March 1866

My dearest Marie.

16 Yesterday the letters were sent to you. Frederic wrote a nice letter. he spillet the ink stand on the fine Teppich, was very much afraid to see what tante would make of it, she took it very quietly. as F said on the evening that he was very sorry, she said one should not feel so grieved at a spot on the flour; but how much should we feel grieved at the flecken which sin does in our hearts and which give our dear Lord so much trouble to be taken away, these words made more impression on F than a reproof, and I believe he got thereby a real blessing. The poor Mrs Schrot blind men wife is ill perhaps bine frase, it is touching to see the poor blind papa praying weeping, the wife weeping for pains, the daughter 15 years old caring for her, day and night.

17 Emma Mayer was for one minute with us she has spent a few weeks at Zafelstein and returned to Kornthal. Tusnelde has been able to accompany her a little from the house so that is to say that she is much better than she was, they are all well. in Aldborg it is not so well, the papa has much headach nearly always in bed, his Vicar was with us friday Mr. HOrnberger. his sisters you know the Kaufman and Kees. he is a nice looking man. Mr Seger is not well. it may at last turn out like Mr Dörtenbach. Mrs Kaiser went to Stutg on account of her son who has <Lungenentzündung>2 vomitted blood and has fever one fears he is consonptif <ist wieder heil.>2. 18th Went to Hirsau with papa who had a good message tu us from God. As the Samariters believed on the words of Jesus and not of the woman so are we to hear Jesus words and have a revelation from him of our being accepted, we are also to learn to make our food to do the will of God as Jesus did. je we are to learn to forget ourselves to do his will. Wöhrle and Roser were also in Hirsau, the Pfarer heard too it was pretty ful. The Lord be praised for having given us a place in the school where great many can hear. I wish papa could go every Sunday; in a mission Stude here there are so few people, much less than in Hirsau meeting; at least last time; but it is true that one had not advertised in Wochenblatt.

18 Mrs Gross has spent the day in Calw dined with us and asked whether we would take Emanuel in cost. this evening came also the Stamheim family, complained that she sees so little of me and she has so much to learn from me! I was just cast down and scarsly spoke anything, we have again wash because of Pauls things. still 10 days and he shall be with us D.V. pity that they cannot be together here the two from Stut. at least D. will not be able to come.

22 the days are already so long that before supper there is no more time to write, Mrs Schramm was here yesterday evening. she had news of hers in America. Sophie has a girl is very happy wish that the family could have part in such blessedness as they have! Bertha is in Stutgart has a great deal to do since the fabrique bread is sold she sells daily 300 loaves, besides, all her other goodly sell more than ever, the mother is thinking to go and live there with the younger one who is to be confirmed this year. Mr.* Schweigle is very poorly; much opression and pains; but he is as happy as ever, I think the Lord is working in two sick women, the Schroat blind men wife who is very ill, and the Staut Nietammer Walterin also Christine has more life. Oh if the Lord would pour his spirit and convinced the poor sick people of their sinful state, they would then come to Jesus and not die like beasts as most of men, it is very difficult to tell the people about their state the Schroat said and I must throw away all what I have done and come as a wretched sinner? is it possible it helps nothing to have done as much as one could! I see I have not yet understood how one is to be a Christian

26 Came your well come and expected letter 2 days later than usual. Got be praised for his goodness to youward Your few lines to me in English have done me good I thank you, the Lord is very gracious to me I can more and more believe his unspeakable love and rejoice. that which I have specially to pray for now is for grace to be a true and faithful witness. it is very difficult to tell that which we should tell from the Lord, please God and men is impossible, to speak only of the love of Jesus to people who have no repentance is not right and tell them the truth hurts them! We must still consent we believers to be considered as fools for Christ sake. the time is short we should not let pass an opportunity without trying to confess our Lord and bringing him souls. Schnürle has just been here, he is a true witness. 30th papa is in Stutgart. I am reading a sermon of Hofacker. I study especilly the 12. 27, 29. 31. 37 39. 43. 45. 69. 70 the 15th I should needfully read, learn and practice. to day I read the 43 I know myself still very little! how many delusions and mistakes, to live really of realities is a rare thing. I give you no news because other people do it and better than I could. the little Decans baby has died of convulsions she is not yet up
