 Calw 14th June 1866
My dear Frederic

I hope that you are well, and full of thanks towards the Lord who has so graciously spared your life last week. We have continual warning to be ready, for a quick summon of the Lord, as also to teach us to be more dependent on his keeping and watching over us. yea so dependant on Him that we learn to pray before we begin a work, a walk, a visit in short before or during all that which we do, that is what is meant by the words praying without ceasing; is it not? God has sent his angels the other day to turn away, to hinder that which might have hurt you or taken your life, such occurences, should humble us, make us very thankful, and confident towards our good Lord, but often we feel as if there were some merits of our own, as if we had been so clever as to escape by turning this this or that way. our wicked heart is deceitful above all. Is it not the Lord has long patience with us, till we at last condemn us and dispise ourselves? learning to trust Him alone, distrusting ourselves always more and more. I hope you have a good time and get also blessings through Mr. Hebich You will be so kind as to send me your wash on monday 18th. forget not the curry staff; but specially the Meerrettig! the servant girl has put them in the Keller? 
Give my love to all our dear people specially to tante Anna and Caroline! is the wash finished?

Have you got your cloth for trawsers? You shall tell me how they fit and how much the tailor did ask you

 Now adieu dear Son
 Yours J.G
