 1Calw 7th Decemb 66
My dearest Marie

Your letters have just come, many thanks for them. the wonders of the baby and encreasing beauty, all has been read to me even some addition from papa of course! The Lord be praised for his goodness to you and to the child; but especially Glory to him for what has been done for the poor soldiers, may they grow in hunger and thirst after the living waters; I am glad that dear Charles has this token of love from the Lord, that is, his blessing on the word spoken, Lead the souls to the spring, to the word of God and not to the church as many do. we have to believe and realise that the word of God is still the power of God unto salvation and not baptisem and confirmation as many good people say and preach. how fearful and terrible will it appear, when we see clearly what were the mark, name und number of the name of the beast, that beast which was, is not, although she is Rev 17 8 I think that if we had more understanding of the things of God we would know more what is meant by that beast which has to do with every one of us. and we are to overcome. Mark, name, in what ever form they may be! 
We thank Mr Zorn for having made the portrait of your dear baby. We love the dear child; but take care not to make an idol, You are right it requires much wisdom not to offend the people specially if one is quick to speak as I am, yesterday again I made the sad experience. It is indeed very necessary to consider, to pray, before one speak. Mina Laure is in a sad condition, very low spirited cannot sleep, says she is lost; she was once happy but now, she is the most unhappy creature if she reads all is to her condamnation; but with all this, she seecks no consolation in God, she laments and troubles her poor mother who is self very ill since a long time, she can no more get up not sit up in her bed; poor Mina walks about at night saying, what shall I do. I shall never be happy as I was, I am lost and so on ....2 I come there often; the father of Mrs Statdfürster has died to day after a long nervous fever, through which the son in law has become ill too from exertion. We have it very good compared to so many Oh may we as you say be continually praising God, as papa read these last days, offer to God the fruit of the lipps that is continual praises.

13th the days are so short that one can do but very little work, a quarter after four one must have the lamp, last year I could write with the light; but this winter not so good, yesterday we have made the goodle for Christmas, the Springerle have not succeeded, but the other things are nice. Mrs. Armbruster in hospital has died after a long sickness. the Methodist have about 500 people, coming to their meetings. and the Decan will also have a meeting with the helfer, I think they will get very few people, one of the daughters of Kaufman Müller with many other belong to the methodists, they meet in the red hause where we were, the weaving room has been turned to a salle which holds 500 people, Mrs. Sprengers little girl the only child is ill with Scharlah fever; the poor mother weeps much, it is her only comfort in this world, Emanuel is again in Zafelstein with a cough similar to Heinrich, they have sad news from Herman who finds no work in America. To day we got a letter from Fran‡ois, no news, he sends the interets, Anna is still in bed she has a bad breast, cannot nurse her son, so you see every one has share in tribulation

Adieu dear children, with kisses to you three

Elisabeth has not written to us nor to her mother it seems. We have a quantity of rain yesterday the Nagold deborded before Wagners house. many storms even thunders three weeks ago the bread costs 21 creuzer instead of 12 and 14. Many sick people
