 Calw 8th July 1866
 <via Calw 8 July 1889, erh 22.)>*
My dearest Emma <(Plebst Indien)>*

I should have written you long ago and thanked you for the many presents you have so kindly sent us, yea to everyone of us, it was really too much dear Tantele and my sons have not even written you a word of thanks, well they are like their Mama, though they will be too glad to eat carry made with the stuff you have kindly sent for it, yours has arrived perfectly good; but the one of Samuel, must have been put in a box which was not clean or I dont know what in opening it there came out such stinking that we had; but time to throw all away:

Your dear Mother is probably telling you how we are sitting by the side of each other in my bedroom both of us writing to their children, 8 days ago I was in Stutgart, seeking a wife for Samele, the Lord be praised for his guidance I trust it is from Him and hope both will be happy and thankful to the Lord. I thank you also for your love to my two children in India I trust that the addition of a wife will help towards your staying closer together which we value much for our people.

9 Your dear Mama is today gone to Gültlingen with papa and Jettle to the conference, I am glad there was an opportunity for her to go. I am glad to hear that you had a time of rest I trust it has done good to both of you, Your letters as well as well those of your dear husband give us always much joy, the Lord is gracious to you, helping you onward, You will have heard that in England one speaks and writes much about the comming of the Lord, many think that 1867 if not before the Lord comes to take his bride to himself. We are not to be of those who sleep because the bridegroom tarrey his comming, we have to call others saying He comes be ready. The hope that He comes soon gives us courage in the midst of crying of war, David writes the war is very near In Stutgart many are afraid; and fancy the Prussians at the door; food in general dearer than before. In Calw the recrutes walk to day in the town singing while some of the poor parents are weeping behind, specially Bauerfrauen, it is truly sad to hear the complaints and misery of many parents who have been obliged to give all their sons, and what is this in comparason with those who lay per thousends wounded often without help. 
We expect Elisabeth Isenberg with us next saturday evening, she has so very little time that she can spend, but a sunday with us, of course a few weeks only to prepare all her things is very little time. I am very glad and thankful that dear Sam. at last gets a wife this year, as he is in Chovva he wants it more there then in Cannanore, and I trust she will be a fit help for him. I hope also that you come together for the marriage and shall have a profitable and blessed time together. Gustave was last week with us, he is very different since he is married, very amiable and kind; dear Mama is happy to have all her children so well settled; only now she is some what troubled about Adolph, as she tells you of course; but it the same with almost all trade, David says also that they have nothing to do, it is a stand still every where. Not only believers, but also wordly people are in expectation of terrible things.

I have not yet seen Mrs. Hauff. she was not in Stutgart as I was there twice. Give please my love to all those who remember us to black and white, specially Anna in the poor house.

Your dear Mama gives you all the news about us, The Lord gives us joy in Paul and David. May the Lord bless you and his work in your hands, love to you both
 yours J.G.


1Tante E mag in gar keine Zeitung mehr hineinsehen so afficirt sie der Krieg. Mama aber liest sie gern. Theod sei sehr gerührt vom großen Sieg seiner Nation. Jettchen Isenbg ist eine ganze Preußin und beschuldigt Elisabeth des Schwabisirens
