 Calw 4th Sept 1866
 <In Mt Clemens 29 Sept 66>*
My dear Children

Many thanks for your long note of 8th Aug. You wish to hear what we think about Julia s phot. She seems to be very clever; but some what excited, nervous, schelmisch is that which I wanted to express by cunning, You are right we are not to be proud in our children, but to humble ourselves in seing in them our own sins and faults; and the Lord is of long patience and suffering with us as with them. I am sorry to hear your dear Christinas hand is not better; but it may still become better, continue to pray, when the Lord has worked inwardly He will also help outwardly; we must trust Him fully; but if you have a Dr near you would do well to consult him. 
I am glad to hear that your congregation gives you now 4 hundred Dollars you require them having now two little ones and your wife should spare her hand. It might be better if she could nurse her baby with cows milk than her own! I fancy I know your dear wife by her portrait I like to look at it.

Since some days David is with us he has Gelbsucht; but in a small degree; one does not see much on him now; only he feels tired and has some pains in the stomach or in the liver, his friend Charles Weiss has come along, they take long walks together. We expect Paul to morrow it is a pity that David should return tomorrow again to Stutgart, just when he could have injoyed his brother. Dear David is very nice, he grows very much, all his cloths are too small. It is a long time since we saw Paul; now he gets long vacances 5 weeks, Our dear papa is not very well. caughs now and then and he has often something like fever, not able to sleep well!

In these days Marie is expecting her first born. I am glad for her that it is less hot than it was. Next week papa goes to Bale to accompany Elisabeth Isenberg. I am sorry for poor papa that he has to travel, and continually Mission feasts; almost every sunday he has to go some where Mrs Süsskind was with us two weeks, she wanted to hear all about you, is much interested in you all, and sends you hearty love.

last sunday we were in Nagold where one asked also after you. I am glad to hear that Julie loves her Marie it is good for her, not to be alone, she learns to give up her own will, and serve already the little one. I was a good child alone, but not with others; because I would be the first and get every thing. I trust Julia is better than was her Grandmama. 
With much love and kisses to you all
 Yours J Gundert.
