 28me Nov 1866.
Ma bien aimee Marie.

I have just been writing to Uranie; therefore I began french. How glad were we to get at last the good news. The Lord be praised for his love and merci to you and the baby. Poor Mrs Kapf in Winnenden has not been so priviledge we have just heard that she was delivered in stutgart by the best Professor of a dead child, a beautiful boy, as the Dr brought it out he felt that it was still living; but afterward nothing could bring him to life, it is the second time they go through the trial, they were full of hopes, the mother is still very ill they are with her mother Reihlen, the old father had an attack is still ill. In hearing this of the poor woman, I felt again what a great grace God has done with you.

When your letter came I was in bed because of a swollen face, which has lasted several days; I was not permited to help to wash, papa and Jettle did treat me as a ill lady; I then felt again how little I cared for you when you had such things, but I must not give way to my feelings you have pardoned me, Your letter has rejoiced me much; So our good Lord is leading you deeper in the knowlege of self as also in the knowlege of Himself, in these two sciences we have to grow till we possess a new body. 
What a pity that the box is so long coming, you would find things in it which would just do for the baby during the cold, Your butler will like to see the baby Saib in a red blanket.

29 You are happy I trust on this 2d birthday of dear Charles, may you be filled with praise and thanks to God and may He this next year give you spiritual children and as much joy in them as you have in Theodor. As you have much from others I will only say Adieu, with kisses yours J.G. 
We have just got a letter from Elisabeth, from Cannanore, telling us the day of the marriage and the text. We have but causes to thank God. Love from Louise One is just hanging the picture of Hydrabad Charles stands under them they are very nice and give us much joy
