<N 17>* Calw 7/15 May 1866

<Das 3te Blättchen sende ich durch Sam. sonst ists zu viel>1 
Dearest Marie

Your dear letter of Ap. has just arrived; we have sent it quickly after papa who is on his way to Bremen, thats right that you write to papa or to me separatly that which one does not like every body to see. I am sorry to see that you have pain in the stoma down; it is I suppose nervous pain I had also a good deal; you must avoid fatigues specially if you have pain in the back, and you must rest on the Sopha if your back are weak, avoid also to eat that which iritate the nerves, saure things, sharp carry. I am sorry to hear Marie Hartman the good Schweizer who made us to laugh with her dialecct sentences has had a miscariage such thing weakens much more than a real confinement. And often they are repeated without getting a child, except in lieing down the whole time 9 months or at least 7 months. I am glad you have found such a good freind in Karachi Mrs. Lidbetter, if she is so amiable she cannot be like me, no

yesterday 5th papa went to Stutgart to proceed afterward to Bremen. After he had left I felt very sad; and was continually with you in my mind, the sickness Gripe which you had during which you were so left alone, no kind mother coming the morning to ask how you had slept or sitting by your side, or bringing you some refreshment, this time of sickness was so forcibly before me with such sharp reproches that I thought of hell where likely poor souls are in agony on account of their sins. I have never so valued the blood of Christ as since some time; for in that precious blood alone can I find rest and in the assurance that you as a child of God have pardoned me, Before yesterday came a poor woman very melancholy she wanted to speak with papa her mind is distressed by the thought that she is the cause of her husband sickness, want of proper care and watching etc she is sometimes in such dispair that she has already tried to take away her own life. poor woman could she believe in God she would be helped, and I had I not grace to believe I would be like her, I with great cause and she without cause 
7th I have been to Stamheim with Elisabeth, Mrs Dekinger was not at home, so I had plenty time to visit my people, Hanesle is very ill nervous fiver. In the Anstalt they had butzerei so we remained there but a little while, In the Mesner s house live the teacher Kraus they have visited us twice, she is a cousine of Mrs. Steinkopf pious people Michale. Martha W, is not yet here. Mrs Weitbrecht in Basle expect next month an other child, Martha may have perhaps to go there too. I am glad to hear that you shall get a nice woman to help you in time of need, it is a great comfort which I got once just for the last at Canna, if you have pains after your confinement be not surprised I had three days so that I could not sleep, I tried many things in vain, they pass gradually.

8th Elisabeth Jetle, Emelie with Miss Fisher who came yesterday have gone to Zafelstein. The three sons have written me to comforte me in my widowhood, all are nice; but specially Paul, He begins to read the newspaper as one speaks almost nothing but of war. I am kept quiet. and glad I have no sons who would have to go, the Lord may still come before the great troubels

10th yesterday Emelie Miss F. Elisabeth and I went to Hirsau they saw the ruins and paid a visit to Mrs Zahn while I visited sick people, Elisabeth was glad to find that Mrs Zahn is a country woman of her mother. Today I go to Aldbourg with E. the Minister is still ill. Mrs Küble is here. Papa has written from B, bad nights. Mr Hoffman is the president of the assembly. Pour Samuel has been truly ill, the Comity is I think unjust towards him, who could submit to Reinhart an unconverted man, vain as he is. You remember what a desagreable impression we got of his first sight! that the Comity is so blind and so weak as to be cheated by the flateries of that poor decieved or deciever.

11 In altburg we found Mr Zimmer some what better, but very nervous, weeps often, he has gained during his sickness, seams to be ready if God would call him. yesterday morning he had some thing like an attack. Mother and the two daughters nice all send you much love. To day Jetle and Elisabeth are in Liebenzel as I was alone cleaning the pictures in papas room I thought much of you last year we were together doing that work, this time it lasts a whole week, we are slow cauch

We both feel we have lost our quick and clever help.

Herry Groß passed through to day going to Tubingen. He is worse, so they want to consult a professor Bruns, to ascertain whether Wildbath is the place where he is to seek help. the poor father is so thouroghly dijected, cast down that the poor Mother suffers much under it, Tusnelte was in Altburg; but she does not look well, neather Sophie Zim since her sickness she had a few months ago, she is not well, there and in Zafelstein are many sick people, Halsbraeune and smalpox, of the first sickness died lately three children in one house. You have heard that Eugenie Dries has been converted she is full of life. Martha W. who saw her in Canstatd was quite moved and said to me, it is really wonderful to hear her, she is perfectly changed she is so happy, can now understand her mother and love her! May God grant that Martha herself may also experience such a change. with them down and up stair is just as in your time, at present the two girls of Barth are ill disposed against Louise speak not, because she said that Bardh had broken the door of the garden which is I belief true; but one does not dare tell those things! It is not that they love B they are some time very hard with him, poor Annele what will it be in the other world if she does not repent. She goes to Stutg to day where Beatha Bard is very ill, in the hospital, she was confined of two children who died soon after the birth; she had to take so much quicksilver on account of v‚nirial desiese that now the consequences are consomption it seams.

14 Yesterday was Louise in bed to day she sits near the oven she cannot walk from pain in her back. the Lord has been very gracious to me I could take it well and was the whole day in the coock room in good humour. I wished I had had so grace when you were here, we would have kooke together and be chearful. I tell you this that you may take courage when it seams you as one could not get better. Elisabeth helps me to coock; but she goes tomorrow, and we have sitzung wednesday, it will also go well with God s grace. Dr Shitz has ordered Louise to keep the bed for some days, she has kalte umschläg. The Lord said behold I make every thing new, can he make so in me in us Surely after he has pulled down and destroied the old, I must not be bad and cross when he pulls down, but look in hope for the new work of His

13 I went to Hirsau I fancy I never heard so a powerful word. I wished you were there with all my friends, it was about the 6th of John, how we are to hunger and thirst in order to believe or in order to become in possession of a living Saviour, how we can eat that word which has been made flesh and drink that blood by which we live and have Eternal life. I hope Emelie writes it for you. Miss Fisher has been benefitted I think. I regreted that Elisabeth was not with us; but she has toothach, I think that hunger is not great enough in her; she speaks too litle on the subject to be able to find out how it stands with her inward life!

I must return to that which I said in the second page Can the Lord make within me all new according to his word? yes surly after I have consented to be pulled down and killed or dead! I have often spoken on this subject and now it appears to me as if it was new, Oh the long suffring and patience of the Lord 40 years since the Lord awaked me; and realise only now really what that is behold I make every thing new. yes new, I imagine I have found a new spring, something undiscribable. Dear Marie take courage that whih appears impossible becomes light and easy. Yes I feel He gives me love to me who hither to, have loved but self. You have been a witness of it.

15 Elisabeth left us yesterday I wished she could have remained longer; but Mama would not come. Louise is better, I visited the two Mrs Shauber Mama very weak, no appetite, no sleap. but seeking the Lord. the young one has a bad cough since 6 weeks, she pleased me very well. she is also seeking peace, they asked much after you, send hearty love, read your letters with much interest. Saturday Mr Moerike went to his rest, She is quiet in the Lord, I hear. Frederic must have felt a peculiar drowing at hearing of his death; he wrote us a nice letter as I have not yet seen. Now I must leave give up all that which does not pass for Him or which displeases Him. May God realise the good wishes he expresses. Paul and David gives us also joy. We are all invited to the marriage on the 29th May. there I shall see the three sons

Adieu dearest Marie a tender kiss to you both
 yours J.G.
