 <Calw 15 Maerz 66>*
Dear Frederic

If you can sell the cloth which was sent for W. I shall be glad it is not from the Wirzes, but from the Wöhrles who with Roser advised me to take this one as being nice and good. Mrs Scheffel too said that she would prefere much this which I have sent to the other, perhaps if Ch W. would see it, he would like it. of the first which he had chosed there was but 2 yeards not even remaining.

I trust that you both will be able to come one sunday when Paul is here. it would be so nice if we could at least be one day alltogether! 
Mrs St would perhaps allow. You have I trust given my thanks to Mr W. for the prunes.

David tells me that gross Mama gave him a brod knife which David has sent me, So you have bought one and Mama one, be then so kind and give to gross Mama 48 Creuzer for the one she gave to David it was a mistake to have two but nevermind. This was written when your letter came, it is right you take this I pai it for you and perhaps you give your red one to Paul for it is already too small for you; but do just as you like. Tante Anna has told you the right thing about the tapich. our since which are for God much worse and greater than such flecken we think little of them. Ja these should make us to consider what it has costed our Lord to take them away. It is indeed very kind of tante Anna to have been so lovely toward you, through the great grace of God in her has she done it. May God give you light understanding and blessing through this occurance
 yours JG

love and thank to tante Anna
