 Calw 8th August 1866
 <in Mt Clemens 29 Aug.>*
My dear children,

Though I have but little to write I will nevertheless send you a few lines, We were glad to hear that you are all well; that Julia bears gladly her little sister. Is Christina s hand somewhat better?

Of late we have had a good deal of visitors, our dear GrossMama was here four weeks, she took the mineralbath, and felt herself very well. Adolphs wife with her sister Caroline and Charles, after they had gone came Elisabeth Isenberg. From Bale we have had brethren passing throgh more than usual, one had scarsly left that an other one came. The one I liked the best among them is Müller from Stutgart who is going to Mangalore as merchant. he has been in the Mission house only three months, this time they are twelve 12 going to India. We are glad to have Elisabeth Isenberg as bride for Samuel. I hope God will make her useful in his work, she is accustomed to work and to spare. Cooking, sewing, cleaning is common to her, she has had also a good education, inward life she has a beginning and is very upright and open,

Frederic was very glad to have to return to Stutgart, where he finds again some work though not much; the several weeks he spent with us were occupied by translating and reading, he was nice and I think that he is growing in the knowledge of the Lord and in self denial, Paul continues to give us real joy; there is in every letter of his something new and refreshing. 
David is no less blessed though he writes very little ore very shortly but the friends who were with us give him the best testimony, he is a man of practice and of prayer, a great observer, that he had already as a child taking much interest in others; In the house by Weiss one feels his influence on the two brothers with whom he takes usually long walks. The Lord has been indeed very gracious to us in turning the hearts of our three youngest toward him. Dear Herman remain not on the border of Canaan as Isaschar, enter in the land fully and you shall eat of the fat of the land; which you will find much better than that which satisfy not the want of the soul. With true love and kisses to you all
 yours J.G.
