 Calw 10th - 13 August 1866
My dearest Marie

My hearty thanks for yours of the 24 June. The Lord be praised for the measure of health he has given you both during the trying hot season, and Him be glory for giving you work and a mind and wish to work for Him in the souls committed to you or who only visit you, be faithful to sow the right seed, it is His work to make it to spring up and bear fruit, our work is to be witnesses with much prayers and leave to Him the quickning and groth. We are to remember continually that the word of God is the power of God unto salvation; so we sow that seed waiting upon Him for the resultat. I find it offen difficult to be a witness, before some persons I cannot speak. just as if I had not a word to say, and before others I feel ashamed; it is not in vain said "if you are ashamed of me before men I shall be ashamed of you before my father, I see I must overcome this shyness, which after all, is but fears to be dispised. Well there is always some thing to fight and to be overcome, we have scarly got a victory, that a new fight is to begin. Since a few weeks we have had a good deal of visitors, also zeogling from Bale, one had scarsly left the house that annother came and I thought often of you who received them so kindly and would give them that which we had best, I tried to do it too this time except to the Armenians, who are rather pretentious.

Of late I have knitted very much first a Kittele for Anna's expected one, some stockings for Maries expected one and now a Kittele for Marie Fings expected one, for I have understood through Mrs. W. that you are to be godfather and mother to each other, perhaps I understood wrong; but I will make her a Kittle as from you.

12th We just return from Hirsau where Jettle has remained with the Katzmayer who were also in the Stunde. Emelie has remained with the Zahn Clare Feldweg was also in the Stunde I am glad for her she is a fine soul, who would like to come every sunday; but her father allows it not. papa had the 8 of John specially on the words 31.32. believe and be made free, free from fears, and from Sin. Elisabeth has spent Samuel's birthday with us, she looks very tired, she sits at work from morning till evening and gets headache; I shall be glad for her when all her things are finished, She will come once more, perhaps Paul may be also here at the time, I trust Samuel is happy, she is very happy and thankful. We are going to have white wash cookroon coridor or Ern etc I would rather have left it this year; but Louise had no rest <till it was done She has something that does not please me - never any doubt of that being right which comes into her head!>1 
Emanuel G. was 8 days in bed with a bad cough; now he has vacance for 8 days; Tusnelte is still poorly, Herman finds work with difficulties; Heinrich is again in Stutgart;

It is to me a comfort to know that the good Mrs Phillip will be with you at your confinement, a person of experience is of a great value. the time is now near when you recieve these lines it will be over I trust, and have joy in a little one.

14th We are looking anxiously for a letter from Samuel; Papa remained long in bed today, when I told him it is time to breakfast he said, first a letter from S than I come, but he was obliged to go to his work without news, poor papa is not well, since some time he caughs, it is no catarrh; he looks tired, and as if to work required an effort from him. In the box you will find a piece of flanel white and rose for a quittele it is from Emelie with the white dress, woolene stockings and shoes Elisabeth will bring. I trust the baby will get a sucession to wear them out. <Eben (15 Abds) kommt auch noch Frau Stammbach von Teinach, deren Vater Reihlen vom Schlag auf einer Seite gelähmt ist. Er scheint allmählich dem Ende zuzugehen. Nun lebewohl
 Es küßt Dich Dein V.>1
