 Stutgart 8 Feb 1866
Dear papa

The company in the post vagen was not pleasant, two Braudpaar of a very low and common sort; In Stutgard I found David in waiting for me, he took me to gross Mama where he had already said that I was comming, when I remarked that I was to go to Olga S. he said that brautpaar <(Gustav W.)>* is there one cannot, as we came to Mama all the Weiss with the bride and her mother were there for caffee. Anna said that I was to go with her, and Frederic who came afterward rather grieved to find me there; decided at once that I was to come to Ol.st. so about 7 O'C we came here, It is a pity that the picture books which D bought have been sent to Calw; they may come too late, to day Frederic will go to unter Turkheim to bring those things I brought from Calw, and hear which day the young lady is leaving for America, Tante think it may already be too late.

David came after half past 8 O'C we were together till 10 - he is still the same, he went to Mr. Hebich the day before yesterday he told him the same things as you had written him; I hope the Lord will soon give him light and faith. we can but pray.

With Anna I have not yet spoken much, she has a wash; we have still time if God makes a way.

I suppose we shall get from Paul the letters of Herman.

How are you all? friday I am to spend the day in hochstrase; to day after dinnar I am to see David in his Shop I may than pay a visit to Mrs. Steinkopf. I will bring these few lines to Frederic and see the Bonnets 
I am more deaf to day than I was, it is probably to have heard and seen so many people, Now Adieu love to dear Jetle, Emelie Louise
 Yours J.G.

Love from Adolph and Anna.
