 Calw 16-31 Dec 1866
My dearest Marie

To day was Ammeile Broß found dead in her bed, on thursday she came to me on her way to Kapler saying "I cannot breathe what is it with me" I said it is probably a cold, as it was worse on the evening one did put des ventouses, and she felt better yesterday evening she was nicely sitting on her chair. Rutle* Reinhart made her a good fire and left her, at 8 ocl. to day as the magt of Mrs Schauber brought her caffe as usual she found her dead, she inquired always much after you, In Hirsau we had few people, it rains plenty. papa is not well, but he works and walks as usual. these two last sunday was the meeting about Lasarus raised from the dead, very clear about faith how the whole transaction of the Lord was to create faith in his own, very nice, yea could we believe we should also see the glory of God. 18 Yesterday was Mrs Gross here, Tusnelte too, but she remaind with the Kobb, we have not the feeling that she is growing in the Lord, her health is still poorly. father and mother not quite reconsiled with the Lord for his dealing towards them.

Jettle has told me some thing of you which has comforted me, as we were talking of our faults sie said Marie had the grace to forgive people so that she forgot intirely all that which had been done or said against her. so you have done with me! the Lord be praised may He bless you richly and reward you I thought there were but the Lord who could so forgive without remembering

29 I have been long without writing one line; but christmas with its wants has taken up my thoughts too much. When your letters came we were all together except Paul who came the next day. Many thanks for all the news. Your being ill at Karachi has grieved me; you must avoied fatigue as much as possible, you cannot bear it through much exertion you can so hurt yourself: that you might be obliged to keep most time on a bed! I hope that your Ama got better and can feed the baby. I long to hear more about you all, how you returned to Hy.

Our Christmas went on quietly. every one appeard satisfied. David coughs much already several weeks. Frederic had a stomachache else they were all happy Charles Weigle was four or five days here I had a long talk with him alone; but one can get nothing out of him, except that he cannot be a pious man, people would mock him laugh at him and this he cannot bear, as I pressed him to come to Jesus now rather than later he shed one or two tears; but it was soon over. the next day he went to visit his friends _....1 Jettle is in Stutgart therefore you get but little this time. This evening 29 we have to suppar Gottlieb W. with his bride, the father W. with Marie S. Herr Helfer with his wife and Emelie who comes early to help me to prepare the table, apropos Emelie was ready to go to you as she read in your letter that you wish to have a help. Jettle dissuaded her from it. she will likely tell you all. 31 Papa should have gone this evening by Decan, but could not, he goes to Muller. Emanuel G has the same cough as Heinrich he is at home yesterday 30th came a Telegram to Mrs Wöhrle that Marie had a son. the mama went of course quickly to Reutlingen. We have storms and rain in quantity. We have much joy in Paul, now for one year I said of him behold he prays; one can still say the same, he grows in the Lord. 
Love from all those who know you specially from Louise, her health is some what better; at least I care little for it as I think she is too tender to herself. Evameile comes still every sunday. they have no work, as many others so that there is much poverty, Apropos I would have forgotten. Marie Monnard has sent 40 francs for you, in your letter mention it please. 
With a tender kiss and best wishes for your work and yourselves three  Yours J.G.

a special kiss an Master Theodor. May God preserve him in health and so spare you troubles

love from Jettle who wanted to write you from Sutt. but has not done it 