<Antw auf Nro 62)>* Calw 28th June 1866
 <in Mt. Clemens 20 July 66>*
My dear children

We were glad to hear again from you, God be praised for his love and mercies to you ward, you say nothing of Christines hand is it perhaps better? So Julia is contented to have a Sisterle I trust both give you joy. And hope Mama has recovered her strength again. Fritz Fillinger is in Corcelles, I have some hope that he will visit us here, though he does not like to travel in Germany not knowing german enough to speak. He wrote that he had had a letter from you before he left; but had had no time to answer it. I would have gone myself to see my sisters who are not well; but the time would be too short during the mission feast and I am not very well 
In your last you spoke openly of the state of your mind it is right that you are opened, it is the best way to keep up communion together till the Lord establish between us a tie not according to blood but according to His spirit, this might soon take place, if once tired of your self, of the World you seek in the Lord rest and peace.

Frederic is with us, since the war has began as already before it, Marchants fabricants, are badly off, no work. perhaps afterward Adolph may still occupy him, it is doubtful, meantime he occupys himself, in translating from frensh and English, copying musick and sometime helping Mr. Wirz in his contoir. Dear Friedrich is more diligent than he used to be. I trust the Lord will give him grace to become a man in Christ not only a babe; he seems to have more courage and strength to overcome himself. he makes himself useful in many things. Paul continues to give us joy, he grows in in the grace and knowlege of God, brings often something new in his letters through the experiences he makes. David is not a child in knowledge and experience in many things he is a real man. And I trust the grace of God will fit him to be a warior for his Lord. from Marie we have thank God always good news, they have plenty work, Marie likes the black people. she can devote herself to some little ones with love and patience, her letters please us well, thinks little of herself on the contrary. it seems to me that more and more she feels her unfitness, unworthiness to be in Gods service; and learn so to lean on the Lord depending more and more upon Him alone and this is the only sure way to serve in Gods work. I heard lately a letter from Emma Plebst who is very happy and joyful in the work committed to her

As Jettle is not here this time you get but little news, she is in Stutgart for some days, her tante Süskind is becoming weak, she has had already some attacks of Apoplexy and one feares she may soon get a final one because she has such strong inclination to sleep, as soon as the breakfast is finished she can already sleep. she is pretty nice, however not yet quite resting intirely on the free salvation offered to sinners. It is hard for people so full of imagination, who have always been so brave, to become poor sinners before God, and accept thankfully pardon of sin; one will be pardoned; but will not come really as poor sinners. Now my dear Children I will bid you farewell in love and kisses to all
 yours J.G.
