 C. 28 Jun 831
My dear Sir <(Revd Wright in Tabriz)>*

An old Indian Missionary asks for your kind aid in counteracting an evil that seems damaging to the Miss[ionar]y cause

Yesterday an Oriental came to me who professes to be a Persian, formerly called Ismail Aywesoff or Ayesow, a merchant at Teheran and Hajji to Mecca, who was converted 6 years ago, and is now visiting the brethren in the west asking help for the Christians in Persia (1/2 million)2 so fearfully harrassed by the Kurds. of original papers he has merely a french passport from the Russian Council at Odessa Oct. 82, describing him as a man of 45 years of age, travelling with Justina his wife (at present the man travels alone). But then he has got some one to write for him a German recommendation purporting to come from Jakob Sergisoff or Sergisov, "Misioner in St. Binau" (as the Latin inscription on the seal runs - I suppose Binab near Maragha). In this paper the inroad of the Kurds in 1880 and the sufferings of the Christians are described in strong colours. The above named Misioner he praises as the most active preacher who has visited Astrachan, Turkestan etc. When asked why he has no paper from the Missionaries he abuses them as bad men compared to their predecessor Perkins keeping back 3 millions of English money that were given for the oppressed Christians. The former Miss's Perkins etc were good men, the present all bad. The man could not read Persian, when I tried him he may be a Nestorian or Armenian. But I see from his book he found credence with numbers of good people who have written down their names and gifts, beginning at Lemberg Cracow, Vienna and ending near this place. I gave him a scolding and wrote a word of warning into his book, recommending him to return at once to his home and commence working instead of begging. I am satisfied that he is an impostor, but to convince those who still think him only unfortunate (he knows but little German and expresses himself with difficulty tho' with great assurance and cordiality)

I should be glad to have a line from you.

Can this Jacob be the Kacha Yakob mentioned in For Miss[ionar]y (June 1882) ________
