<ad 373 und 374>* Calw 18 <Sept Samstg 1880>*
 <(An Papa nach Herisau>*
 <via Herisau 20. Sept>*
 <(erh 5. Oct)>*
Dear papa

I write only a few lines as you get from Jettle and others all the news. 
We were pleased with our soldats <Soldat. Einquartirung am 15-17?>* one of them was a big talker without any consistance an empty man; but he imposes on the other by his talking much. In Stamhein Mrs Ritter had one Feltwebel with his servant, she was much troubeld to cook for him; but he was so nice that he thankd for every thing he got, the evening before going he beged to have a bath in that fine room where he slept being wormed by the sun, In general people of Calw have been praised for their good treatement; only Breitling in the Mill is spoken of and dispised for he gave them nothing they had to cook their own food, they got there meat and bread very late so that they could not have to eat before 3 or 4 after noon and all the others were recieved in all the houses at 10 Oclock with a good vesper, at dinar bradt and wine, Mrs Ritter gave to hers in parting 9 eggs to eat on the road. It was not noise all went on quietly, the Band plaid before Waldhorn one evening. in general the Calwer and soldiers were pleased, half of the Calwer followed the morning they left to see the fight or manoeuvre. 
Jettle is wating to send you the letters so I must say Adieu wishing you a good time for body and spirit, If it is fine weather remain rather three weeks, you do not know when you can go again injoy your time, the rest, air and your friends in Heinrichs Bad. Elisabeth goes to Stutg next week, perhaps?

 Adieu Yours affectly J. G.

Shall I write to Uranie that you come at the end ot the month? 
Elise is still ill
