 Basel 29 Jun 80
My dear wife

Yesterday afternoon David telegraphed to Rubattino: "Where is Steamer India? The answer came 4 1/2 PM "India arriv‚ Gˆnes." Then probably Rubattino told Mack of this interpolation, for about 8 o'clock the 2d telegram arrived "Gestern mit Frau Gdt glücklich angekommen. Werden wahrscheinlich Freitag in Basel eintreffen." Mack.

I went to Emma and told her, brought also her and Emily to the Mission house where we heard the Students sing. About 4 I had been with Pauline to drink the coffee there. She seems to suffer from the noise of the child, so that Dav thinks of taking William with him to Stuttgart. To me this seems the better way.

Monday morning the Special Conference. Schott explained about his ideas and the points he has in view for the journey in Sept. If preserved in health during the Indian tour he thinks also of going to China now before returning.

Mrs Kaundinya is also here, very nice and meek, would have been glad to see you and talk about the children. Today I am to dine with Theod. Hoch in the Spital, to drink tea with Pfleiderer, who now sits in the Committee. Hut ab!

The Sunday evening with Pf. Preiswerk was nice: about 17-18 returned Missionaries talked about the best way of gaining more fruit.

A good spirit seems to rule, though of course Inspector knows that many stick to the old way and will defend it earnestly against any innovations. He gave me that letter of Sam. with the heading: "Des Volks ist zu viel (cum grano salis"!) He showed how something might be done on this and that station, to set a Missionary free for work amongst the heathen. He finds it very necessary to deliver the work in the congregations into the hands of native pastors.

Mögling writes that Ludw. Frohnmeyer will be head of the higher girlschool at Esslingen instead of Dr Salzmann. The other Frohnmeyer at Knittlingen (Walker says) longs also to have the Govt Service or take at least a professorate in a Seminary.

As for dear Elizabeth none of us thought it feasible to go to meet her. We do not know the time of her departure nor the places where they intend to stop. I had written to her why I should prefer travelling quickly on, but it is plain she cannot separate herself from Macks. We must then wait quietly. Perhaps they find on the way that they could also hasten their progress and I indeed could wish that they arrived on Thursday when we should return on Friday so as to reach Calw 6.2 in the evening. If not on Friday, we hope it will be on Saturday

I hardly see my next neighbour Jettchen, but know she went yesterday with Emma and Emily to Arlesheim to see the gardens etc Emma is well content with her house, Mrs Linder in the Missionsgasse.

Now David fetches me to Theod Hoch. Therefore goodbye
 Yours affly HG

Love from David etc
