 Virarajendrapett 19 Febr 53
My dear wife

I have good news, will therefore not delay to give them. On the evening of the 17th we went to Virarajendrapett. It took us only 1 hour slow riding. Fred had arrived before and found Mglg already settled in the bangalow. He had brought Stephanas with him and paid his first visit in his house wife and children glad to receive him but creditors surrounding and troubling them. St has much land, but was unlucky in Cardamom trade, and left his place because he did not see how to fulfil his engagements. But he has shown that every thing is exactly as he had stated before to Mögling. He can by his property repay 200 Rs every year, or at least 100, the debts are about 700, Möglg will seek to raise a loan for him, to be repaid in some years. On the 18th early we went to see his house and property, an hour's way to the N. of this, called Arameri - fine place, his wife has 3 children, all very pleasing, - there is besides His uncle's widow with 3 children and 1 or 2 old women. He has about 200 Puleyar (Holeyar in Canarese) not slaves, but attached to the land and paid for their daily labour - and thinks they may at once be instructed. A basket had been taken out for dinner, wife and children ate with him - so that is settled. the other woman will not eat, but remains in the house. There were plenty people to ask, hear, object: also the Subahdar's friends came (he is a relation of Steph. and as much as a Tahsildar) and objected to Europeans going into a Coorg house, but they would not give this in writing, only they were very angry to hear his wife had eaten with him. Möglg had then the fields shown to him and chose a little place above the house for a schoolroom to be built with bamboos and first to be occupied by himself. He has no idea of leaving this place for some months! (but this I suppose is not yet to be said publicly). There is a great stir among the inhabitants: for they confess that Somaya (St's old name) was very wise, and wonder at his returning to suffer whatever may come. The Subahdar had at once several complaints against him, but Möglg and Hermann have accompanied him this Morning to the Cutcherry. Altogether it is a most promising beginning. In fact we never had such a case before. For the present the creditors may give some trouble by demanding immediate payment etc but there is every prospect of getting the matter satisfactorily settled. Some friends at Mercara (Fennel Harkness, Holland -) are much interested and think that they must support an undertaking so near their abode. - I have settled to keep the bandy till my return: there is nothing to be had here easily f.i. Coolies, bandies etc - I hear that Lascelles is displeased with Ammann and had some quarrels with him already. Mrs L. is soon expected out - Fred. is nicely, still he would prefer the quiet Perumbadi to this place of many visitors. The bangalo is built on the site and within the enclosure of a palace. I find plenty persons to speak to and wonder how many Coorgs know Malayalam. West's man Kallia came also from Perumbady is very anxious to learn English, but has no idea of anything spiritual. - Now farewell love to all friends, the dear Youngs, Carr Gompertz White etc kisses to Vau and David! I hope the Lord keeps you well with our Misses and all the children
 Yours HG

My dear wife!

Möglg is just returning from the Cutcherry, and quite satisfied. The creditors behaved very nicely and told no lies (one excepted). everything is in a fair way of being settled. - Thanks for your letter which Mögl. brought. I send to Heb the one of Bühler which it contained. Now it is enough. It is Saturday about Noon.
 Peace be with you.

Feddy says: {write ____________ kisses __________________ I know to make my bed on the floor and put my box in order F.G.}

