Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

 Virajendrapett 21 Febr <53>*
My dear wife

I have not got a second letter from you, yet to assure you of my generosity and tenderness begin already the third. - My chief piece of news consists in this that yesterday Sunday night about eleven Somayen Stephanas came with all his family (3 women, 6 children) and some friends. He had been driven out of his house by some of the Subehdar's people (who of course plays his part underhand) and the women were determined to follow him whereever he should go. Thus the plan of the enemies was defeated. Their intention was to separate him from the women and then frighten these into compliance with their designs, so as to set up a separate claim on the property for the younger children etc. Now all the family is with us in the Bangalow, but M. has written to Capt Gustard, who will on Thursday come hither. I shall then see him and in the afternoon depart for Perumbady. Every thing seems to prosper the noise and stir among the people promise very well. St. is very quiet and possesses his soul in patience. 
M. has given up every idea of going home and will try to stay here with or without the will of the Committee. That he does not intend going home he has shortly announced to Barth in a postscript to my letter. For I sent some letters to Basle Stuttgt etc and gave the first news of this fresh movement. - As for the loan - with which to repay the debts of Stephanas. M. has written to Stokes and hopes he will do the needful. The children are very nice, I gave them figs which they admired and bread to which they took more slowly.

I am surprized at the similarity existing between the Coorg and Malayalam languages. They have whole phrases that sound alike f.i. __________________ ______________________________

Capt Gustard's lady seems to interest herself in this undertaking - and expresses already her hopes that M may settle in Mercara rather than sit down here in the district.

I do not get half the books I had expected from Kaity, so you have not to fear the necessity of having new bookshelves made. - Fred. ist "flaying" much with Hermann also reading repeatedly with me, or Israel and Titus. - I hope you will not find him worse for having had this vacation. The idea of people driving one out of the house for Jesus' sake has occupied him much, chiefly when he heard that such things might yet happen to us likewise. He looked with much interest on the new family and then asked Herm. where the bad people are? (he meant those who had driven them away) - The brother's widow has quite cast in her lot with the family, eats with them and will not hear of any separation. Also others come occasionally and eat with St. fearlessly. So you see how loosely their caste notions sit on them! 
If I hear anything from Cann. I may yet write once more before leaving otherwise you may hear from us the first time again on Saturday by the rumbling of the wheels over the rock in the road. Eddy greets heartily so does your most devoted husband
 HGdt
with kisses to the little ones

