 <1853?>*

1My dear Mr McF.*

I regret that there should be anything calculated to annoy you in the connexion which has been lately formed between ourselves and some men of the 74th. <When you came down we expected that all the Presbyterians, at least those of the established Kirk, would go to attend on you. Mr Hebich thought even of proclaiming from the pulpit, that he was prepared for this step and left it with them to do what seemed right. He was prevented from thus meddling with the matter by the consideration>2 As we have done nothing to attract them we judged it but also during your visit not to interfere in the least with their movements - but just to continue, as we had begun, ministering to whatever number of people might be found attending. 
If we had dissuaded any one from going to hear you or tried any how to estrange them from the diffrt Churches you might indeed find fault with us. But we can assure you that we have not influenced them at all in these matters and that Church questions have never been mooted by us. 
I am sorry to hear it and shall do what is in me to counteract. Your kindness encourages me to add that if what happened to you had happened to me I should perhaps have sought the reason more in personal than in Church feelings. Might not some men be offended by reports which represent you as sharing more freely in worldly amusements than ministers of Christ are generally wont to do? I say this in this freedom in order to be quite candid with you and beg you to pardon one who is conscious of having deserved no preference of the existence of divisions and heartburnings I was not aware before your letter informed me of it. However what is past is past: if I should have been too careless in the matter I know now how I may avoid giving offence. Should Mr Henderson ever pay a visit like yours, we shall make it a point - to prove to him our anxiety to let these men profit by any Gospel ministry that can be obtained, more especially by one in accordance with their national tastes and predilections.

This is no mockhumility if you consider I have been a stranger to most of my hearers up to the 25th Nov when I preached to them for the first time. you will not think me puffed up at* any illusions on this subject 
