Rev. H.Gundert, Virarajendrapett, Coorg. outside post

 Chiracal 20me Febre <53>*
Dear papa.

Yours I received Friday eveni for which accept my thanks. Why I still write you will soon find out as I have always some petitions Hebich has brought me no Cambely from Payavur as I expected none were to be got; but Jacob tells me that the coorg country is the right place for blankets white and black I would then beg you to let Nani inquire and if cheap buy 24 or 30 - At the feast people were very quiet but few people comparativly would here Jacob spoke with the father in law of Stephanas your new convert and with many other coorg men they were all engry at the steps of Stephanas they also said that he has about 12 or 14 hundreds Rs detts which will bring him to trouble as peope wish by all means to trouble him. I am anxious to hear how you are going on there and how he has been received.

Yesterday in chapel all people asked after you. Mrs Young paid a visit saturday evening. Cpt Carr has promised one for this evening. A young officer <Newbery 19 Febr>1 has died I foget the name. Griffith <the chaplain>* was with him nearly the whole night. Gomperts <Gompertz>* was too. the Chaplain said before many officers who were standing near the sick one here is a calling for every one of us to seek salvation before it be too late. Though the dying had had a steady life very high church man he said before his companions to a question about the hopes of his soul. I have no hope of salvation. I have trifled too much with religion. Many young men are shaken among whom Mr. Gray who already one came to chapel before. Now I will finish my scribble. We are thank God all well.

No news to my knowledge. At Tellicherry the cholera and small pox take away some people specially from the tiers.

David says papa gi cooly Vandy poie both are nice and happy

With kisses to Eddy love to all
 Yours Julie Gundert

