To the Editor of the Friend of India1

 28 Oct2 <1853 od 54>*
Dear Sir

My attention having been directed to two Nro's of your Journal wherein the prospects of our Mission are alluded to I feel it my duty to send you a few lines in reply. You stated as an undisputed fact, that we "have had health spirits and hope destroyed" by the shortsightedness of our deputation: you even think that "the latter has in all probability received a great Mission for ever". Now I have no doubt of the motives that prompted you in penning these remarks: You give us the praise of being "hardworking and selfdenying" men, - you even go so far as to call ours a great Mission, a compliment which to my knowledge it has never before been honored with: So I cannot but suppose you meant to show us some kindness. Still it seems to me, that you cannot have a very favorable opinion of our persons, when you find us coolly submitting to the destruction of an enterprise we have as a body been engaged in for the last twenty years. We must be poor laborers, if the short visit of a friend or two can ruin our work for ever. I am not disposed to enter upon a defence of the proceedings of that deputation, though I confess, I cannot conceive by what measures they have merited the heavy reproach you cast on them. But I would ask, what is to be thought of us, a body of 30 men, professedly resolved, in simple dependance on the strength of our Lord to offer battle to the powers of darkness that rule this great country, - and yet according to your statement suddenly deprived of spirits and hope by any guilt of the friends that support us. If such be the case, we must, I should say, have deserved our fate. For if we have in any degree learned to attack and resist the strong and subtle enemies that surround us, yet are found too weak to guard our work against essential harm from a few real friends far away in the West, we must have been forsaken by Him who had helped us so far. I do not believe this to be the case, and would assure you that, though we have our difficulties and are now and then tempted to take a gloomy view of them, this is not the prevailing sentiment with us. We still hold fast that hope which maketh not ashamed, and trust not only to keep what we have wrought but even to enlarge our borders. May I beg you in future to give less ready credence to reports about distant Missions. They may appear perfectly fair and borne out by tolerable evidence, as far as the last informants are concerned, whilst the source from which they originally emanated, may be tainted by malice or prejudice. 
 I am etc
 a Missr of the Basle Society
28 Oct

