Rev. E Diez, Cannanore, bearing

 Perumbadi 16 Febr 52. <53>*
My dear wife

Monday evening about 6 1/2 we two horsemen arrived at Chalottu, a poor hut 2 miles beyond the weavervillage Coodaly (where Hebich had the fight with Jacob's friends 2 years ago.) After half an hour Eddy followed with the bandy though this had been detained long at Dr White's by the laziness of the fellows who had to bring Herm's box there. Also Matthai had been detained afresh by these fellows telling him that the couch is only to go to Whites, instead of Chalottu. That he got fever from the new exertion, having never carried a load for a whole station, and that we sent him back next morning, you will have heard. In Chal. got milk, ordered by Samuel, I don't know if 3 or 4 bottles, but certainly more than 2 bottles of water along with it. Slept well, that is two of us, myself from not washing - because water not to be had, hardly ever closed the eyes. In the Morning to Ooliyil, Mrs Francis must have planted there some Cocoanuttrees and pineapples but house and garden are in a ruinous state. Slept much during the day, in the evening refreshed walked with Eddy in the ricefields. Had the promise of a fresh pair of oxen for part of next morning's work, but were after all cheated. Wednesday morning got up at 2 had packing till 1/2 past three (!) gave Quinine to the people. To spare the horse I went some part in the bandy to Eddy's delight, Math. walking. Arrived half past 8 at Uruttepula, the river where the Ghaut begins. Eddy followed about 11 So tired were the oxen from the 16 miles. Commenced the ascent at 1 o'clock. After 2 miles I waited for more than 1 hour and at last returned to find the bandy which could hardly proceed. (Coolies and oxen were nowhere to be had). So dismounted, gave the horse to Nath, and walked with Eddy 5 Miles! he never complaining. Samuel and Matti helped either pushing or dragging the bandy. The last mile Eddy preferred to walk. At 6 we arrived at the site of the new Bangalo, which is not finished, wet walls etc. asked to share in one of the workmen's huts was refused: So sat down on a mat and ate cheese and bread with Eddy. At 7 2 Coolies came, which I had ordered Herm to send from Perumbadi when he arrived there. He had finished the whole walk at 1/2 past 4. I sent by the Coolies his blanket etc for the night, but as the oxen were done up, preferred to pass the night there with Eddy in the bandy. It was not very cold, and we managed to do without blankets. Eddy never awoke once. In the morning at 4 got up and walked till 6 to Perumb. Eddy either on foot or on horseback. You must know he wants by all means a horse that has ___________ he dislikes the bandy, and is now a very bold horseman or footpassenger. Here very fine morning. Francis' house pulled down - we culled their strawberries roses etc. Eddy wants to stay here _____________________ - likes it exceedingly, but this evening we go the remaining 3 or 4 miles to Virarajendrapett, whither the newspapers as I hear have preceded me.

The climate here seems delicious. Even Nath seems to like it - he shot a bird for our dinner.

I send one strawberryblossom to remind you of home. Eddy says I ought to write how many oxen with bells we met, besides bandies, asses etc - an immense traffick! Now farewell love to the dear children, the Misses schoolgirls etc I hope you have a quiet time!
 Yours HG.

Br Diez soll Herm's 2 Brief einen an Kullen, und darein versiegelt eingeschlossen den canares. an seine Frau - auf Br Hebs Pult gelassen - nach Mang schicken. Ich sage aber das sey schon längst geschehen. 
