Rev. H Gundert, Virarajendrapett, Coorg, outside post, pd

 Chiracal 18th Fe <53>*
Dear papa

Yesterday you will have reached your place I hope! After Frederic had left David said Gegi* cooly Vandy poie papa coum* poie.

Vaw was rather displeased to be separated from his brother but he soon got reconciled when he saw his Missy and Mama were still with him. Frederic was rather proud and showed a great joy to go away with out his brother it greeved me to see that evil spirit in him. The nex day you had left the Gardner returned from his canjie after 5 Oc in the evening with red eyes and smelling after toddy. I told him next time it happen he may be sent off. Matthai came tuesday at noon with fever and head ach, he is now well. his father has a great sangadam to tell you about him, for he does not mind him at all mother and son are one mind no regard nor obedience to the father, as the boy did not go to learn with the Doby I have ordered him for the present to help his father to put the wood* in side.

The letters from home gave me joy may it be in Herman a beginning of repentance which brings to life!

Capt Carr has sent yesterday orenges with a kind note, he would have come but was very busy in praparing for the journy, he does not say when they are leaving.

This letter enclosed I have just received nothing else. I have seen nothing of you as yet; but you will say the same of me. Here all is as usual. heard nothing of Hebich and his people. Let Nani at your return enquire on the way about rice and Gram the Bensons had told me that at perambady the could get it extreemely cheap, perhaps Nani might get some Vandies of each Dear Paulus sends kisses and David too. What is doing Eddy?

Love from all and from me to you all. I long to hear how the dear new convert has been received and how it is going on there?

Now Adieu.
 Yours Julie Gundert

