 <Kann erst Ende May 53 sein nach Empfang von Bühlers Brf v. 24>* 
1My dear George

I have for some time thought of writing you a word of exhortation, although I am not particularly acquainted with you. First there was your anxiety about your step-mother: which Mr Hebich would have wished you to hear was altogether unnecessary, as every care is taken of her. He does not object to your sending money for her use, if you have any to spare, but would have you know that she is not particularly in want of it; he also thinks you would do much better to trust in her behalf to your teachers, who have for 14 or more years supported you and are still waiting to see their troubles rewarded by your faithful service in the Lord's cause.

The other point on which I have something to say, is your marriage plan. I confess I thought it very unlucky that Mr Mglg <s. Tagbuch 26 Jan 1852)>* put the idea in your head to ask for Miss Will's hand. Not only did I think you totally unsuited for her, but I particularly regret, that this helped to put you into a European dress. It must have been something very new and attractive to you and I fear has engrossed your attention more than it deserves. We have here European Catechists, but they try to assimilate themselves to the natives: you were brought up as a native, but now try to remove your outward man as much as possible from the black people. This is a great pity. I tell you freely I should much rather like to give a girl of European descent to a humble native or to a humbled European, than to a person of your extraordinary tenderness on matters connected with the tailor. - I was grieved to hear besides, that you boasted here in Cannanore and in other places of your prospect of marrying Miss Will. There was very little of manliness or delicacy in making thus free with a name on which you had no claim whatever for I had given a decided no to Mr Möglg, and you ought to have understood that. But it seems you liked to be thought a great man by your old comrades yea and new acquaintances who of course knew nothing better, than to spread the story abroad, so that your boyish foolishness is now known all along the coast. Now it seems you have given up Miss W., but make sure of a certain Miss B. Are you so blind as not to observe that this kind of behaviour makes it perfectly impossible for you ever to gain the regard of a female that is worth having. Now I beg you for your own peace's sake, return and become like a child and learn the first elements of repentance and humility and you will find that nobody is against you except your own poor self. Think that you are but a weak beginner, and instead of assuming airs, entreat the Lord to pardon your foolishness to give you true faith and boldness in the blood of Christ and in process of time to make a perfect man of you He can do it, he will do it: the question is only: will you be helped? Accept this in good part from
 Truly your wellwisher
 HG.


1My dear Dr. Gundert,

This note, as you will see accompanies the children: I hope they will behave themselves well and not give Mrs. Gundert and yourself much trouble. 
I send you Burmese Saumy; you will doubtless find him much quieter than the children.

With kind regards
 Your's sincerely
 T. W. M. Kerr
8 February 1853

