Rev. S Hebich, Cannanore, bearing

 Virajapett 24 Febr 53
My dear wife

Yesterday I received your letter about the Camblies and bought 24. The gain can not have been great, since Ramasawmi the boy who formerly ran away from Heb. and here had joined us with professions of repentance profited of Nath's absence in the Bazar for the purpose of stealing his turban and bedcover along with Samuel's jacket etc. Perhaps he has gone towards Cann. He told the milkman he was sent beforehand by us to prepare the way and drank yet a pint of his milk, charging him to get money from Nathanael! What rogues these are!

I write this chiefly to say that we only leave Thursday evening - therefore will not arrive before Sunday morning. I don't know if we shall go then to Cann. or Chir. (I mean vandy and Frederick, whom perhaps I leave at the White's?) of course the horses may as well go to Heb's house. So don't care for us!

Möglg returned yesterday evening from Gustard. Mrs G. seemed truly Christian, no doubt more than she was at Mangalore. He undecided. In Stephanas' case he hopes to be able to give a favourable decision, but if he sees that the Coorgs will be annoyed by it beyond a certain point, he will throw the responsibility on Col. Cubbon at Bangalore: because there are some (stupid) fears as if the Coorgs might attempt a revolt! However the matter is in God's hand.

In order not to disturb us the Gustard's will not come hither before Thursday evening - On Friday the case will be gone into and on Saturday Möglg will try to go to Mercara to begin a Tamil service there with the Mang. Samuel as reader. Fennel has asked him to do so.

Mglg transfers his things to a tent that Gustard had pitched for him. Eddy was highly delighted with the progress of this kind of house building. With love to all and in the hope that our Lord will give us a happy meeting I am  Yours HGdt

