Doctr. Gundert. German Mission, Tellicherry

 <Aug-Septbr 41.>*
My Dear Gundert.

It afforded me much pleasure to hear from you and I hope when you come at ten you will come straight to our house, which is a very large one and where you can have plenty of accomodation. We shall be greatly disappointed if you do not come. - I have sent in a sick certificate for another years leave to those hills, for tho' anxious to return home to my children and native country, I find I shall not be able to do it without remaining please God a few years longer in this land a preliminary step to which will be getting my health compleatly reestablished.. - - I rejoice that God has so far blessed your labours in Malabar, you have in this respect been more highly favoured than many missionaries in this country, who have laboured for years without a single real convert: I do not think myself that the time is far off when all India will be evangelized see how they are getting on in Ceylon. - I know not what to say about my books, I am greatly obliged to you for having had them wiped - I would ask you to send them up here, but I have not a single friend in the place who could take care of them when I moved and it would cost an immense sum of money to move them about, the same is the case with respect to my glass and crockery ware: So I think it is better to let them remain if this will be no trouble to you - As to the Furniture I gave it to you - with the reserve of a table and couple of chairs: - and the tea chest.. - Remember us both kindly to Mrs Gundert - We have now two little ones with us and expect another, when we move we shall be a good deal puzzled what to do with them - With respect to the Phaeton Scott has behaved very ill, he was desired not to paint it until just before the monsoon when I was coming down myself, he had previously scraped off the paint which made it look shabby. -

Give my love to Hebich when you see him -. I am glad that Lesh has not finally given up being a Missionary, this is his new scene of labour. I do not see what use the Canarese language will be of to him - hoping to hear when you are expecting to come
_____________________ B...
 Your sincerely
 Harris

Ootacamund Augst 31st

