Mrs Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing.

 <Coimbatore 18 Octb 41>*

My dearest wife

This poor Nro IV is only written (after much fatigue) to acquaint you that I have arrived in this old Capital fo the Conga or Chera Rajyam, called Coimbatur - this Sunday morning (17 Oct) after a hard night's journey. We left Palghaut yesterday 2 o'clock - very hot in the beginning - then the strong rain of the East Monsoon. The whole is 32 miles, but we stopped part of the night at the Bangalow of the late Maharajah Bisram Singh where milk is given gratis, and made the remaining 17 miles this morning. - Everywhere I find West's name prominent in the Bangalow books, in the Palghaut book he wrote that the Havildar who serves in the Bang. is of a regimt which his father Gen. West commanded some years ago when at Quilon and Trevandram - in Pal* Walar B. he thanks the Maharajah for his kind assistance to travellers and states that "the Bangalow very attentive" (meaning probably the servants. Here at Coimb. he in 2 places "thanks the British Government for all their kindness in building Bangalows" and "for all the accommodation they have caused to be rendered to Travellers" - to which a scoffer adds "Hear saints and Sinners" and draws the poor br's face with his beard and ass'es ears" - I wish he knew the world a little better than thus to force himself into notoriety. - As the Mission Church is near, I went at 11 o'clock with poor Titus (who as yet had no ________) to hear the Tamil sermon. It was extremely poor in contents, tho' upon so rich a text as "Not with corruptible things as silver and gold" - and with so much form and declamation down from a high pulpit! I lost the courage to speak to the Missionaries' families after service, thinking to delay my visit for tomorrow. But as it now seems fesible to go on towards the Neilgh. I will not delay a day, and promise myself a visit on the return. They are I think strong Sabbatarians and I fear to offend them by coming in the evening. Every thing (f.i. after the extempore prayer the Decalogue as in the English Liturgy with all the responses) sounds so legal, so commanding and forbidding - I wish they had also added some Gospelprayers from the Liturgy. The people in going out stared at me and Titus, yet none addressed him, tho' he lingered behind for their sakes. Of course I shall not ask him about his impression till after our return to Malabar. The people sang nicely - girls plenty and in good order apparently. The younger Missionary looked also more evangelical than old stern A<ddis>*. This evening I will try a second time to get a letter from you, and send this off. On Thursday I hope to write from the Neilgherries. Missy and myself well - greet all. Monday after I think to leave again D. V. or I shall have no time left for the Malabar journey which will surely take a fortnight. With truest love your HG. 
The Cherry Spirit has done good to myself and compagnons

epitre re‡ue ce moment
