Mrs Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing

 Ootacamund Thursday 21 Oct. <41>*

At last dear wife you see I have arrived here - not without trouble, but also not without fruit, at least for my health I am a good deal stronger - walked up nearly the whole hill way. NB. At Coimb. I paid after all no visit - nor shall I return that way have quite enough of rain and Tamil country and long for my Godgiven Malayalam again. Rode Monday <18/10>* morning to Cudelur, Tuesday <19/10>* to Mettipalayam: that is walking every day 5 miles and riding 5. It did me much good - both mornings and had no rain whilst walking. Looked much for plants, Missy much interested in the change. Wednesday <20/10>* morning under rain and thunder (fine echo) over the Bovani and Caltaru bridges, then the hill ascent, at noon in Cunnur, where half by mistake and half from care for Flora who came 1 1/2 hours after me, I went to the hotel. Yet the bearers would not go farther and the "Mem" - of the hotel sounded shortly for 2 persons Board etc one day - Rs 10. whether with beer and wine it would have been the same or more I cannot say - but a strange hotel it is and little attention besides the good warm room and a comfortable bed. Flora had no blanket, yet a fire would have dried my clothes sooner in the bangalow than the poor chimney. Well* Missy knows something new, what hotels are, and very memorable it was to her. - This morning after going 3 miles astray to Cotagheri, horsekeeper being too cold and lazy, I got the horse and arrived at Ootacamd, ready you may suppose for breakfast. Lasc. was just going to Cotagheri to meet his brother in law, so I only greeted him. Fl's bearers took her first to Miss Hale's by mistake. I sent over to fetch her, yet not till Miss H had taken her into the room and got her to dress. About Mrs L. and children another time. I thank God to find her composed yet under much care. Shall see the other pious people by and by. I send the account to look at. Enough for this time! I hope to stay a week, so you can answer this the day you receive it. Then I intend to return by Manantoddy rather, and hope to be ready for preaching Sunday 7 Nov. A letter at M. (written about 31 Oct) would be acceptable. Greet Children, friends, Joseph, Chinnappen Hannah Vedamuttu and all others. Not much time now, but hope to write in 2 days more. Yours for ever H Gundert.


Lieber Fritz Dank für Deinen Brief. Nimm den an meine liebe Frau eben als an Dich an. Grüsse den Munschi und sage ich bringe ihm etliche Götzen mit zum Schämen. Was für ein armer Kerl er ist! Den Berg hinauf hatte ich ein curios Gefühl als möchte ich hinauf und müsse doch hinunter, sang oder schrie Lobe den HErrn in die Wolken hinein und dachte an Sterben und einen Abschieds Brief an die Gemeinde.

Hier ein Malayal Lied aus dem alten latein. über die Weisen vom Morgenland. Der Gedanke ist gewiß nett und lehrreich, wie auch die Ausführung seyn mag. In herzlicher Liebe Dein HGundert
 Grüsse die Knaben Tit und Rav halten sich gut.

Account of our journey to the Neilgherries
 HG.
