Mrs Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing

 (Tellich?) Oot. 27 Oct <41>*

My dearest wife

Before leaving this I will yet say one or two words. I am happily gonethrough the ordeal of a week on the hills and thank God for all I experienced in the shape of joys and trials. The latter arose not from shirts wanting (for I took Lascelles' and now the washerman has brought my 4 dayshirts with the other washed) but from men from Christians <Roe>* - I long to be with you and not indeed to rest, but to be in the sphere of labour more clearly committed to me. Here might be work too - plenty, yet calling would be required to dip into so many trifles which Satan often succeeds with to kindle a great flame - Oh for a rain from on high to quench all what little tongues have set on fire! - I saw today Frank and Edward Groves - to my great joy - the latter very affectionate, as if he did yet know you and me!!

I intend bringing or drawing Ruth after me in a bandy. She has 3 children, 1 Sarah. 2 the stupid one 3. a little boy. With her is to come Pungavena a girl who reads well, but already of age and I wish to keep her out of mischief. I think we can soon marry her - perhaps to Timotheus. Vedamuttu has been offered to me by the Amer. Missionary here Tho I do not know in what we are to employ him, I accepted the offer - he will probably be sent in the course of next week, and we shall see where he does better, in Tellich or Cannanore. I will mention it to Hebich. May God bless these arrangements and allow them only so far as they are agreeable to his will. No letter - I see by the steamer - The Coolies with Flora, Maj Lawes' and my things not yet arrived. I hope Ruth can bring those things down - I now long indeed to be down again and the servants are glad too to see me moving. - Arthur Lascelles does not go with me. His father is afraid for his health and may possibly go to England to ask for a commission on his whole case from the Court of Directors: then the son would accompany him. It is to me very nice to have no new care of the kind. - Flora is happy with Miss Hale, whose piano I have yet to tune before I go. She wishes me to say that she likes the cold climate. She begins already to colour a little. On Sundays she will dine and take tea with the Lascelles: and began to do so last Sunday. This evening I shall have to baptize Maj. Lawe's baby, sleep there and go off next morning. The Rowlandson's are here but have not yet seen them. Was yesterday with the Roes, but to little purpose, besides seeing Edw. Groves. Frank Gr. does not know why his father does not write to me. Kiss the children greet the girls and thro' Br Fritz the boys, Moonshee and Christians. Ever Yours HGdt

Just 4 hours before starting the Coolies arrived at last - all right but what a number of things

