Notification to the Supreme Government1

 <11/12 Octb 1841. Calicut.>*

This is to certify that 2 travellers in mysterious custom the one apparently a Methodist padre with long dark coat and a female of dress without character yea even without bonnet have been seen this evening going through the streets of Calicut with several Coolies behind them. Their haste, the dim lantern and the uncommon disguise marked them at once as smugglers or at all events persons of suspicious predicament. As the male person looked very formidable and it was so dark that any compagnon of theirs might have assisted them from behind the trees without fear of discovery - the Government is herewith first warned, and with daylight the proper steps will be taken to apprehend the person. They seem now to behave very quietly and confidently in the Travellers' bungalow.

P.S. On farther enquiry the place where they landed (near the Zillah Court) has been found and also a large Manji cunningly hid behind a sandbank. The industry of the Peons in finding it out is beyond praise. It was mounted in a moment, no time left for getting slyly off. On farther enquiry most of the goods appear to have been landed - without any communication with the custom office. A Palankeen and a box - to judge from the sound - filled with forbidden books, remained on board - perhaps only to mislead the enquirers. They allege as excuse for their behaviour that the travellers wanted clothes and food, having been seasick at least the Lady and servants, and drenched through by an unmerciful rain, both long and heavy. But all the enemies of good order have welldevine* excuses. - -

P.S. to the P.S. One peon has observed the travellers in the bangalow through the windows and has persuaded himself that the trunk and basket landed contained nothing but their necessaries, and that the gentleman has dressed late as it is (11 o'clock) evidently from being thoroughly wet. The Lady and himself drank ilanir, and ate some beef, cake and bread - at last also tea without milk. As the gentleman sang something like a hymn, he can not have much money or smuggled goods.

Tu diras il reve - et tu as … peuprŠs droit - c'est bien loin, venir du Manji __________ au bangalow et nous avons ‚t‚ oblig‚s … attendre pour le t‚e. A douze heure Mahe 2 heure Badagherry __________, alors tu avais une tempˆte … Tellicherry avec un peu de tonnerre. A quatre heures comme nous fumes prˆt de Coylandy (la seconde station) voil… la pluie et quelle pluie - jusqu'… sept heures - point de vent - de 7-8 un peu - puis elaballi, Tandu valikka. A 10 heures nous ‚tions sur la chauss‚e - Voil… le commencement de l'expedition
