The Revd. H. Gundert.

 4th. January 1841
My dear Sir

In the last letter I received from my brother in England, he desires me to present his best thanks to you for having supplied us with a Catechist in the place of Michal Pillay discharged; and to say that such a person (the Catechist) must look up to, and be paid by us, his employers, if not, that he (my brother) is under the necessity of declining with the service of the person you have placed at Anjarakandy.
 I am my dear Sir
 Yours truly
 J. Brown
Oblige me with a reply.
The Reverend H. Gundert.



 ... 5/6 Januar 18411
My dear Sir

I beg you to convey to your Brother the sentiments with which I acknowledge his thanks for an endeavour, partly mine, partly the Rev Mr Hebich's, to fill up the vacancy left by the discharge of Michael. Whatever we may have then thought desirable for the guidance of a Catechist, placed amidst such strong temptations are necessarily incident to you, as the lonely situation of a Christian teacher at Anjarc. I can not now find any actual difference between the arrangement adopted hitherto, and that enjoined by your Brother, and therefore leave to you the payments of Paul beginning with the month past. In the hope of paying the little congregation my monthly visit I take the liberty of inviting myself for Friday and beg you to excuse my not pr. paying you back previously the visit since I suppose you fully occupied with your present business. I am -

Excuse the delay of the answer, I only returned yesterday night from Cannanore

