Mrs. Gundert, Tellicherry, p. not pd

III. <16 Octb. 41>*

Dear wife.

I sent you from Ponani my second wednesday morning. Set out in the afternoon - with plenty of troubles caused by the proud Mopla bearers and Coolies. They would only go to 12 and then not without making the palamkeen lighter. Arrived in the night at Tirtalla - the Coolies not before midnight (one ran away with the half hire) of course we were asleep before that, I with some wine, Missy with the milk. Thursday 14 Oct. in the evening to Vanienculam. I preached about 1/2 hour to Tamil and Mal. people (belonging to about 30 cars) near the Ponani river. They had already heard of ______________________ and asked what reason there could be for his coming on earth. So I had some fine opportunity. - Friday 15 Oct. walked in the morning to Lackadicottay, where I write this. We have a stage more to Palghaut, where I shall send this to the Tappal, D.V. We are all well - The 2 young <Titus and Ravunni>* men are going with the coolies and talk on the way. I took, robbed or bought this morning a wooden idol from an uncovered Bhagavati Temple - the man near it said, if I took any of the offerings (___________) great evil (_______) would befall me, because there was considerable strength in this Goddess. I said, I wanted part of it for Europe, where no such God was to be had. After all he laughingly took my pice and 1/2 and I pocketted yet 2 other little heads of burnt clay, which amongst a profusion of such offerings, representing animals and human members, hands feet etc were lying outside the holy circle. As they are very small, we may send them to Europe. - Yesterday the Nayadis lowcast beggars, who follow travelers along the road, began to trouble us. I purposed to give to none unless they came near. But Missy told me afterwards her Mopla bearers frightened her by saying these people were ______________ enchanters; which story Ramutti explained then unto her, that if one did not give something to appease them they would appear in the night in some frightful shape as horses or cats and kill or strangle one. With all that they shall get nothing from us. But their cry is really awful, chiefly after sunset. The finest allees here of Mango Tamarind Jack and Bunian trees - only troublesome for the horse in the night, because of the roots. Much more Palmyra than Cocoanuttrees. - I am in the hope of passing Sunday at Coimbatur Tho I confess I am afraid to venture into that Mission, after the treatment which Lechler received there. All letters to be sent to the Neilgherries, after wards again one to Coimbatur from whence on my return I intend to go the Cherpulcheri road to Calicut. I think I may meet the Collector in that direction - Missy dreamt of Bava sleeping with Br. Fritz and crying: Mama! she wishes you to remember her to her Papa and the girls, and asks if Je te conseille laisse le frŠre payer les maitres d'‚cole etc pour ce mois - 
they have got their presents. Francis wanted to go with her, in ...1 to see her father at Bang. Joseph was to go along, but in ... and jacket, lest her father be shocked. Query of us bot...
Bollel* walking, or talking? Does he remember - Issy ...
I have yet many queries but it is time to close this - With ... to all friends, and best love to brother- sister- and child-hood You... - Arrived Friday evening - in rain - Paulgh. The coat proves an excellent protection. Found bearers to go today and tom. morning to Coimb. 