 Saturday 23 <Oct 41>*

My dear wife

I am much disappointed to get from you only a letter of anxiety instead of joyful news. You and dear Hermann are continually before me, yet I know that it was for good reasons that God has given no wings to man. We must learn patience in our evil days and sometimes before we yet have learned it, out comes the good and happy day. - With Palghat and Coimbat. you talk into the wind. I am decided not to go that way, but to see the Coll. on the straight road to Tellich (not thro' Wynad but by way of Wondur). Dr Birch has lately seen his sister Mrs Conolly on that road. - What would you say, if I was to bring young Lascelles with me (Arthur the youngest) - it is only hinted at, not yet spoken of; yet if it should be much pressed on me, I donot know if I should say no. He has made some progress in classics and is here at a stand still. Of course even if we attempted it, it must depend from the Committee whether it is their wish to have it carried on. Donot mention it to any but Br Fritz. I shall freely state all the difficulties that appear to me to lie in it. Yet if L. can make a suitable provision for him the Comm. would probably not be averse to some by work of the kind. - Miss Hale is much pleased with Flora. Yet we are sorry that her outfit has not as yet arrived. Miss H. finds her obedient and soon familiarized with the rosy children in the house. I have a high opinion of Miss Hale and the best hope of Fl. improving under her. The thanks for the news you gave of all. Greet dear Hermann, and tell him, Papa will soon come and makes _____ for him. Ruth will come too. I like her. - Saw old Vedamuttoo he is Monshee with Massie, Amer. Miss.

Sunday 24 Oct I have preached today in Tamil though it was poorly, it was understood. Many Chittoor people among my hearers. I wish I could do at Tellich. what I this morning did here, visit the jail distribute tracts and speak the word of life to the people (many Malayalam - Nayers Tier Moplas) The Capt. here allows it. I was astonished at the joy with which they received the books and words from Mr Massie and myself. But now I will not delay any longer. You are exceedingly poor in your writing, tho' I wish to hear of so many and you want in fact only to hear of me why in your case I should have written each day 2 letters instead of one for a week. Still I will pardon you and remain Your
 HGdt

