 Wendnesday 10th <Novbr 47>*
Dear papa.

Thanks for your last. I am glad that at last my box has come. Tell Miss K. that I wish her to put aside the best dolls which you shall bring up when you come pucked up nicely in the basket. If you think also of the children's portraits they will be wel comed here.

The whole correspondance between Tellicherry and Cannanore, and Mangalore has been sent here so, it is not known only by your letters to me. Moerike is pleased of what has been done and he thinks it has been the work of the Lord, what the two others think I d'ont know. It would be a great wonder if all the Brethren could recieve it well. for envy and jalousy is not so soon brought down. but I must say I wonder that all or some the bretheren have been exhorted to follow what has proved to be a mean of blessing at C and T. You know well that any thing which looks as a command or even advice is generally not well recieved, chiefly where envy may be exited! Confession is an act of obedience and faith which can be done only when a want and right spirit press one, The impression of what has been done would have been perhaps more profitable to others stations if it had been but just related without any encouragement of doing the same. People here could like to know if forbearence, patience, love is more common at Tellichery among white and black than it was?

Mr Hodges post Master has told me, that, any parcel may be sent by Bunghy, provided that one writes on it: Nothing again regulation: So if it was possible to you to send me a pair of black cloth shoes <they are in the box which has come from Bombay> with red spots, they are very hot, and would be of a great use to me here, and of none in the low country. We expect the Greiners this evening. Weigle could not go to meet them on account of the rain. We have a heavy monsoon. My love to all

 Yours afftly
 J Gundert.

