Mrs Gundert, care of Mrs Hodges, Ootacamund

 Tellich, 2 Nov 47
 <Tuesday>*
 (9 years ago landed at Mangal.)
My dear wife

I pity your many troubles with travelling, bearers or rather no bearers but what can I do. If I was up there I fear I should like to help and still be unable to do much, since every thing affects your nerves so grievously. On Monday (1 Nov) evening the Greiners had not yet reached Cal. for which they started from here Saturday <30 Oct>* morning. They had come over on Wednesday <27 Oct>* with the 2 other brethren Kies and Hoch who left us for Mysore - and with Hebich, who preached here again, just 3 weeks after the first time: and there we had again the crying, among young and old, to the surprize and displeasure of the other visitors, for also Fritz was here, and he left us in the evening doubtful what to think of the business. However he has begun to confess to Huber, and the Lord helped some have already begun to grieve for their sins there also and to make confessions. Take care what you say to others about our affairs. Some will have it to be of the Devil, and others (our dear Br. Mglg f. i.) know to explain the whole by very natural reasons. The crying appears unsound: every thing ought to be done orderly and decently. But never mind! we know already what we have got from the last crying also. Elise, Missy, Isabella, Milca and others whom you do not know so well, confessed that day what they had still kept back the first time, and have I trust been gained to the Lord. One of Fritz's boys had been hard treated by Hebich's preaching. He also confessed after Fritz was gone.

On Sunday <31 Oct.>* I could baptize Hagar, the most advanced, Martha, Lydia, Aline, Uranie and Milca; Anne also was received into the Church. Hassan <Martin>* Rama <Noah>* and Kelen <Elieser>* will D V be baptized next Sunday <7 Nov.>*. Praised be the Lord for all his benefits.

I send you with Greiner a pair of shoes from Fred. Müller for Mörike (Hebich had none) newspapers for Bühler (to be sent back by opportunity) and the cinnamomoil, which costs 1 1/2 Rs. Give to Greiner 1/2 Rup for me. Your box arrived today. Of course all was put in order by the Ladies, as I know not what to do with the little things. Mrs Irion and Mrs M Mook received theirs parcels.

Frederick sits quite alone. I never wrote of an ass. He drinks cow milk and eats 3 times Canji Arrowroot Sago etc He talks Adda etc His gaiety is nearly continual, though he also knows to assert his rights when he imagines himself neglected. Mrs Gr will give you a full description of him, at least it is not my fault if she does not communicate to you every thing that can be measured with a thread known by the eye and ascertained by the ear I told her particularly to take the measure of his arms and legs. If she has forgotten it you may humble her by this piece of intelligence. 
But speaking seriously - how are you? I hope you do not merely read heart's ease (which I have never seen) but practise it. Nothing more necessary for us than to have the heart eased daily of all its loads and dirt! May God give you hearts ease by Cooly loads! If you were with me, I could only give it by drops. So you seek it better from him: or where ever you get it. But we have sought long and find it only with him, who invites the heavy burthened to come unto Him that they may find rest for their souls. 
Now farewell my dear
 Yours HGdt

Here a letter from Arthur to Kirubei.

