Mrs Gundert, Kotagherry, pd

 Tellich. 17 Dec 47
 <Friday>*
My dear wife!

Thanks for your short note, received on my return to Tellicherry. I was very happy at Cannanore, would fain wish to be able to say that the Lord has laid a blessing on my work there. Yesterday morning Heb. returned from Mang. where all seem to be taken up with the monetary affairs of the Mission. It had been proposed at first, that a great number of us should ask for their dismissal, afterwards plans were spoken of for transferring some Stations to other Societies. I do not think that we shall be unanimous on any such point, however as much as can be done together should be done so. For I think it impossible that our Indian Mission can go on with any degree of health, as long as there is not more harmony between the governing and the governed. They conscious of having the pursestrings in their hand, and holding them more closely in proportion as we want more, and we grumbling louder and louder - this is not an edifying picture and I would wish to see it soon decided one way or the other. My idea would be, first that the Committee permit any one who wishes it, to join another Society, secondly that before giving up a Station, the influential brethren at home should be roused by letters from India to consider what is to be done in so momentous a question, that the decision may not rest merely with our Inspector. For though in general I should fear the idea of the different Auxiliary Societies meddling with all the particulars of the Missionary work, we can under the circumstances existing hope that by God's mercy some of them may be enabled to speak words in season to our great men at Bale.

So you repent of your sudden change. I am happy that you do. For I can but answer your letters, and will de so regularly, but I cannot bring myself to write without such an impulse. - Frederick is very nice, stands now, trys to sing and to imitate animal's voices, and embraces every opportunity of endearing himself. - Mrs Cummin was so kind as to communicate to me your letter. what you say there as well as in mine about having Salvation is very true, but, why allow the Devil to tell you that you had it only in the head? Surely you are apt to deceive yourself. It was in the heart before, but requires of course to be renewed to it again and again. As to your suggestion to write something to B. about past transactions at Cann. it appears to me unnecessary. Nobody meant any harm, as far as I know, and if he felt hurt it is to be regretted, but the remedy does not lie so close as you seem to suppose. Longer acquaintance would be required to make the 2 parties understand each other. - Give my love to the Weigle's. I received his letter through Hebich and am sorry that he has any thoughts about so necessary a demand. Hebich will I think send him also the money for building I shall try soon to answer. But to morrow I must go to Anjercandy, steam letters not yet arrived. Perhaps I may get them tomorrow at Anjerc. will then also write to Mrs Weigle

 In love
 Your HG.

