Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Otacamund 9 Octbr 47
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa!

Wednesday 6the I received your note. I am glad you have not told me at the time about weaning babe, and praise God that it is over. I think you have done it just at the propre time. the book of our expenses I had put in your writing table and you have seen it while I was yet at Teli there was not many expenses; but since that you will have had the expenses of the nurse. My expense here is about 10, four for clothes to make trousers to Frederic, 2 1/2 Sadliz*, 1 thread 2 1/4 for my comming here, etc

It was rather impudent of Thomp. to ask those people to go to him! I shall not neglect dear Marie. I think that she can do pretty well with 70 though certainly the C. might give her at least 100. I think I told them this was the least they might give 100 Rps. I am glad to hear Arabella is going on pretty well.

Now that my health is recovering I begin to think of you all more than I ever did before. Dear Frederic what a happy day will be the one, when I shall be permitted to kiss him. I am rather glad not to be immidiatly with the Greiners at Kotagherry; for the sight of their three children might make me to sigh after ours; not that for my sake I would like to have them; for I think it is much more beneficient for my nerfs to be quite alone, without any anxities; which could not be the case had I the little one. 
About the L. I quite feel what you say. I hope the Lord will geine* me; and if I am not to do good rather keep me from going to them. Mrs Hodges wishes me to stay a long while with them, as they are simple nice people I feel free and happy with them. The West also wish me to return to them. 
Friday <8 Oct>* Weigle and B. have been here; they will send me the three children pupils of Mrs W I shall care for them for a fortnight during their days of remouval to Kotagherry. Mrs Greiner intends to stay here a full Year I hear; what shall poor Sophie do who expects a babe. In the same hope is Bertah.

I send you here whith a note of Mrs L. I hope you will meet her requist. in sending two mounds of Ar. As soon as you know the price; let me know please as well as how much advence you give to the Cooly.

At last I have seen the Begbees; they are truly poor people; the eldest of their daughter I like better than the youngest; he chiefly seems compleetly without life. they are so stingy that not only, they did not pay the rent of the rooms they occupied; but did not get the same quantity of bread as they wanted while alone; so that the one of the West was continually encroached upon by them. the poor girls are said to be sturned by the parents. reading novels, playing piano is all their business.

I shall likely go to Katary for some times; the Brethren would be glad if I would for a while assist them in their housekeeping, I think it is my duty to do it, at least for some times. A good economical beginning, with some care for their clothes will be acceptable by them. In these things dear Pauline "est completement en arriŠre. Entre nous soit il dit! 
Une autre fois j'ecrirai un peu plus au long, et un peu mieux si possible; pardonnes cette fois ci

Avez Vous des nouvelles touchant Misi? If you have any news you do not like any one to read from home; tell me of it the important things; for I shall be obliged to have them translated by Mr B. or M. who will come some times from K.

I shall try to read German's letters during my stay with them! if possible! 
My love to all. In my next I shall send you some lines for our children and parents.
Adieu
 Yours Aff
 J Gundert

