Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellicherry 18 June 47.
 <Frtg>*
My dear wife

I have now in 2 days received 3 letters from you, which is more than I could formerly say of my fortune in 2 weeks. What shall I say of the impression they made on me. I reproached myself with having so little studied or understood you as to commit the folly of writing to you any thing more than what has a green colour: or if I wrote about Amah and Mrs Kegel why did I not take more care strictly to define reasons, extent, and consequences of the evil. Really you are not in the right way with your heart: not even in the last letter, which otherwise gave me much pleasure by its warmth and the truth of several of the views given. - Frederick is now over the vaccination process: the pox came out well, and he suffered very little from it. He also is growing stouter and gives less trouble in the night. The Amah's food is better cared for by herself, because she prefers that way. When we gave the rice she managed to eat every day an Edangali of ________which is perhaps good for some labouring man, but not for a quiet woman. I did not wish to injure Frederick by having the woman overfed. On the whole I am glad that he now eats occasionally barley canji and likes it - it assists his bowels, which under the mere milksystem were never quite regular. The Amah has tea, bread etc etc in abundance. I wish you would leave such cares to those who have to answer for what they are doing. If Christiane should get sick you are not answerable for it and have nothing to write about the way of keeping. The same is here the case during your absence. Strive to quiet your mind by the rich promises given to every soul hungry and thirsty, but believe that more time, care and money is at the service of this child, than at that of any former child - and how has God brought them so graciously through their little troubles and trials! - The reproaches you are making to yourself are exaggerated and misplaced. No doubt you are by nature a poor sinner, and after grace came you have not made the full use of it you might have done, and hence many fruits have not appeared, which might have rejoiced your heart as well as God's, and that troubles you - but will you change what is past? Repent for it: but then over come these lookings backward, which are destructive to your reception of the promises. I do not want to see more repentance in you, rather less if one may say so, and more faith - faith I mean in hoping against hope, seeing every thing green where all is dark, trusting in the power of that word which in a trance calls all the dead into life.

My last 2 weeks have been blessed - the Lord made a move farther in Chombala, and yesterday I baptized 5 souls there. Silas, the brother in law of Paul with his household - a fine company, truly repenting, both man and wife, but also believing that their sins are washed away by the blood of Christ, and now ready to suffer what may come. In fact the sufferings by relations, creditors etc have begun already but the great joy of the first love overcomes them easily.

One cannot now send seeds to Dharwar. If once opened, the whole will be spoiled except we begin to plant immediately. So we must wait. - Isabelle a ses mois depuis mon retour tout reguliŠrement. - Mrs Müller I thought writes what Miss K. has to say - she thinks it her particular duty as she knows English etc

May the Lord quiet settle and revive you in body and soul, with or without medicines - Greet the brotherhood and keep in good memory
 Yours affectionately
 H Gundert

