Rev. H. Gundert

 11th june <47>*

I cannot help useuring your letter this very evening, for it greves me bitterly.

What for change the food of the woman, it was going on so nicely. Have I not been sorry enough to see at first the poor child so lean and miserable, d‚prived of nursing myself, and now that it was going on better you must stop it and for what to spare if you want to spare, have it in your own table; but not to the poor babe who is already born as a wonder. I besiech you if Mr I will not wilingly give the food to the woman, tell Canen to buy at Tellichery all what she wants and you shall pay it of our own money. Has she also taken away the tea and bread? Do dear can you have listen that it was too dear. better perhaps to hear the child crying and see him ill and miserable, has he not suffer enough while it was yet within me in sorrow and continuel trouble.

Is it not that in all houses when a nurse is that she is fed and that as well as possible. What for to spare if it is too much for the Mission I shall get the money from some places to pay the food You may tell this to Mrs I

Do write me soon, for the dear babe is for me more then our other children You do not know all what I have gone through while I bore him and to have been delivred of him safely has been to me a piculiar wonder, Do not laugh at this, but Do all what you can for the child that he does not suffer from the food of the nurse. If Mrs I does not fed her properly send her to me with the dear babe Mr Weigle shall be very happy to care for them 
Saturday <12 June>* morning. I felt rather hot and engrey when I wrote last night, yet I will leave it for the sake of the child. I will not write till I have an unseur to this.

Excuse the haste of Your
 aff J Gundert

