Rev. H. Gundert, Tellichery, pp

 Katairy 26 August <47>*
 <Thursday>*

So, so! Your Lordship is not pleased with my notes, but I don't know who has the more right to complain. that mine be poor, miserable, full of nothingness, it is no wonder. they are not the only badge of my capacities. And have you not yet taken it as a part of the crook in your lot, and made up with it? To yours there can be no allowance, no want of talent, no want of subjects round about you are needed; and yet some times I am also not satisfied; and more so when I see no answer to questions of mine are they perhaps so unintelligible that they remain all together "dans la boite des oublis"?

Sunday 22 I received yours of the 16th Monday <(nicht vorhanden)>* Mr Weigle left the hills for Mysoor, he was accompanied by Mr* B. two stages who in returning visited many vilages. It seems that Mr Moerike's station is fixed to be here. You know of coarse that the Inspector Hoffmann is expected in India the next year.

Tusday <(24.)>*, Mr Groves came again to pay me a visit and a long one 4 hours, he told us that he had very hard moments with Buri who indeed had been sent by Darby to make him to retract his steps. Buri was preaching at Madras when Groves knowing nothing of it, brought his wife to embark; the moment G. entered the meeting B. could no more speak. he accoused G to have apostatized, which afterward he was obliged to retract. He was so affraid of G. that he asked, where can I go in order not to be followed by G, the last said I never made a step after you what do you mind me so much. He wanted after to go to Bellarey, but Mr Strange with others would not have him, so in general he is not liked, he asked to be kept and assisted but the brethren would not do so; He then went to Calcuta. Mr G said again that it was much better for a Missionary to belong to a Society than to depend from some persons; and that he would on any account begin again a work as he did. Plimoothians have not done so much towrds the support of Mr G as to pay the potage of their letters. Bristol and Bunstable are the only Chuches who have helped him. Mr Muller is now going to bild an Orphen institution near Bristol, he has 10 thousend pounds. the Bears and Baudens are going on nicely, they are kept by two Gentlemen livin<g>* in the same place belonging to to the established church. We spoke of Mr Blumhart, he does not think that the gift of miracle as well as all others gifts beside faith, hope, love, ever* to remain after the foundation of the Church were laid according the 13th of Cor. Yet he says that likely toward the end some may reapear. Only he has a dislike for any thing of the kind considering what has past with the harviniets. Mr Street in speaking of G. said that he was the best man he ever knew. His views about baptism are the same as before hand. so about Ministry. H was accoumpanied here by Mr Allcock chapelain. and Brigadier Tomkins two nice Christians who remaind but a small moment. Groves was pleased with the brethren at Bengalore who were formerly at Cannanore; they imitate and follow Mr Hebich like little children. Though G does not agree with H. he revers him much for the great gift given him 
How are you all at Tellichery? the young people. And the white together. 
I hope Frederich continues to be well, and sleeps well. Is there no appearence of teeth as yet. how many times does y drink Canji. My love to all and from all here
 Yours aff J Gundert

PS When you write to Mr Groves Please to send him Mari's letter, and I think you will find among mine in the glass almira one from Adelle Gros to Mr G send it too. Do you know any thing of Mrs Huber's heath at Calicut? 
