Revd H Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing.

 Katary 6 Sep <47>*
 <Monday>*

Well at last a letter came on the fourth at noon. I forgive you for this time; but mind; not to deal again so. You have a proof that you do not better than myself even after having reproached me pretty hard. I don't ask long letter; but at least some lines every week, which cost you but 5 minutes of time. Now where is Andrew? At Chittor, working faithfully, superintenting the schools, How many converts, I don't know. The schools are goin on nicely: They have a good English school Master with his wife who attends the girls school. Hanny as ever has the charge over all things, Weigle writes from Mysore that Mrs Franck is an ordinary woman. She expeted her confinement the past month; but now there is no appearance of "grossesse", this Mr N told me. Mr Mogling writes that the Ladies at Mysore show a great wish to be admitted in the society for the translation of scripture. Chiefly Mrs Campbell should like to sit amongst the Gentlemen. The next meeting is to be here in April.

As regarding the time of my return I shall submit to the decision of quiet people. Mr Moglin has said I should be here tow yars! The friends here have long advised me to remain a full year. If it is to be so you shall then spend here the next hot season which will be I hope beneficial to your health.

You have not sent me the malayalam newspaper, do not forget it please. 
You will have heard of the suffrings of poor Mrs Greiner. If you know any things about them tell us.

Mr Buhler had last night news from Miss LeGrand. she sends her love and says Marie Gundert is a dear child, gives joy to the Ostertags, and is very well! Some what else I do not know, his news were chiefly about the feast. 
I hope you do not give any meat to Frederic Mind that it is not good for little babes. He is, it seems like the child of ______________ who as soon as he is put down crys so loud as to be heard from far, and this happen often, and for a considerable time; for the mather has their rice to Cook. 
If you could manage to send your letters to the Tappol on Saterday or Sunday then I could have them on Friday, appointed day for the man who goes to Out. else I must wait till Tusday.

Pour dear Mrs Cummin must have hard moments with her mother! I am glad to hear about Milca; may her heart be made right with the Lord; 
It is sad that the people who could help at Telli. put obstacles in the way, May much grace be upon those who have to preach, and with wisedom may they Glorify the Saviour.

Dr Hidkens sends you his kind regards, he is very friendly at least for the moment I saw him. He is at Cunnour with his wife on account of his health. Major Beaumont went home for Mrs. B. who was very ill; they have four Girls;

Is the small pox at an end at Nettoor? Love from our cercle; mine to you all, kisses to the tow babies.

 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert

