Mrs. Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd
Bitte schnell zu befördern

 Saturday 17 (?) July <47>*
My dear wife

As I received yours in Anjercandy - through Paul and Silas who visited Timothy, I answer immediately to send it on without delay. I had no time to write you before this having delayed my excursions to Vadag. <14-16>* and Chomb. till Wednesday - and today I had to come here. The Lord be praised that you learn to be quiet in patience and hope! the latter will never see you put to shame. But if any one will desesperer "un-hope", I at least do not go along, and if yourself should be the despairing person. It is a shame and does dishonour ...me and banner under which we go. - I have had rather a nice time at Vadag. and South of the river, where I visited the proprietors of the slaves and found they had given up all resistance - had plenty people to hear the whole day, and more humble than about Tellich and Mahe. Jacob is trying to gird himself again for the race but he is a weak mind. Matthai's child most healthy. Marie his wife wishes strongly for baptism, chiefly since (Tuesday) one Tier died in their Verandah, from a snake bite. - Paul etc always going on famously. - I only wish that if the white Christians disagree much and have little love, they seek the more severally to secure the love of black brethren. I am sure it is not thrown away and the more I spend my time among mere Malayali people (write ____________ (not ______) the more I feel that I have taken root here and that we are a closely united body, though not numerous. Blessed be God, that Vedamuttu is no more in our way! As for Christians I shall with God's help endeavour to bear more and more weakness, but unconverted native helpers - only nothing of this kind; and if it be detected by open misdeeds the sooner they are sent back to their nets etc the better. I hope these days to hear from Stuttg. - The prospects of the harvest at home are good - yea beyond all expectation.

I wonder how you look? still maigre and nervous?

Baby will no more lie, sits always on my arm - no fear that I jump him beyond his liking.

 Now farewell from Your
 HG

