 <2 Novbr 1847.>*

My poor wife will hardly believe it, but here it stands written boldly "has pardoned" and she had showed me the first draft on the state, without any doubt or fear. Perhaps it shocks you: I do not know if I feel it aright, but it seems to me as if some pray always for assurance, but are afraid to accept or to hold it when given, and therefore become again and again a prey to Satan's influences. (The same is done by false assurance of course). But wayward hearts that we are - To pray earnestly, repeatedly for one thing and be afraid of it when it is given! Do you know the some? I hope the Lord may set up Missy to you as an example of his way of working. How open now! how always ready to come and speak about heart and Saviour! how earnest her prayer, how changed even in her features!

I can assure you she is the Lord's. Now I beg, rejoice first with the angels in heaven over a sinner that repents and is converted, before you begin immediately with your "take care"s. Would you spoil the first joy - perhaps because you do not heartily partake of it, you hail the moment when temptation assails anew, and then you may say: "there you have it, now you see, was I not in the right." But even then if God give me grace, I shall say no: for it is both right to rejoice and to be on his guard - each in its own time.


1My dear Mrs Gundert

I thank you very much for the kind letter and the useful lessons which you wrote me, Isabella and I read some of the passages which you mentioned and I know now the cause why I had no peace, and no faith, not only because I doubted if God could forgive my sins but also because I kept back some at the time when I wrote to you, and these sins troubled me very much, but after I confessed them I found peace and believe that the Lord has pardoned me a sinner and washed me clean with his precious blood. Some of the girls who confessed their sins have found peace and feel that their sins are forgiven, six of the girls are baptized. Hagar, Martha, Lydia <31 Octbr 1847>* Aline, Anna and Uranie, but there are yet some who have not repented. I beg you, pray for them and for us that have repented that we may not fall again asleep, Milkha was also baptized with those six girls, 8 boys were also baptized, Hassan is amongst them his new name is Martin. About Louisa I cannot tell anything, I am afraid to write to you about other girls, because I cannot see in their hearts, the three ladies, some of the Christians, Isabella and all the girls, send you their salams,

 Your's affectionate
 Margaret Will

