Mrs Gundert, Kotagherry, pd

 Tellich. 24 Dec 47.
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

I am truly glad to have now for once to answer 2 letters. The last of the 19th Nov. (Dec?) gave us good hopes of Br Moerike's recovery, which we pray the Lord may effect soon. - Not much to be said of Hebich's visit to Mang. They would not receive his confessions in prayer. Lehner esp. spoke against it. But on the whole he brought a good impression away, also from the native Congregation. We have since had him here, with the Calicut brethren, to consider about writing to the Committee concerning the money affairs. He had for this purpose a draft of a letter from Mögling which we tried and considered. Fritz gave us a good account of his work or better the Lord's work among his people. Hebich had the first conversation with Major Miller who seemed to be on the point of taking up the cause of the new BaptistMormon-Plymouth sect at Cannanore, who are receiving all the backsliders of the Congregation. Miller seems as yet undecided whom he will join. - This evening we had the Christmassgift to the children. Your parcels made up some fine presents to the white children and Miss K. I had bought something for Isabella and Missy. Books I knew none to give away: and should have feared to offend her by giving more than you had done, lest it appear as a sort of pay for her services to Frederick. - All who received very happy, but also the other people had all come from Mahe Chomb. Vadag. and I dare say there was more of disappointment at not receiving for themselves than joy to see the children receiving. That is human nature and our Lord's word - more blessed to give requires repeated struggles before it become a fact of general application even in the regenerate. - Frederick has been exceedingly pleased with the little things he received. Miss K. had a tree made for him in her room, Mrs I. gave to the 2 children and the waiting girls in her room and then after all was the great noise in the school room. Our boys after prayer sang the Hallelujah of Haendel very nicely. The little Christians desire is now fullfilled __________ (Christmass)
- No news as yet about Missy's future course! There is even no payment for more than a half year past. - I told to Mrs I. the point in which you confessed your wrong. She begs you to have no thought about it, as she knows to make little use of the small ribbons and is giving them away occasionally in presents. - The history about Missy's letter had never crossed my brain, so I could not imagine what had led you to change your times. But how strange that you should suppress a letter written already. If I knew that, I should never have written what looks like criticism on your letters. The best for me is, that I now can rejoice in hearing from you in a tone on which I can not find any thing to animadvert. I am so glad that you really do rejoice in your salvation assured to you to the very end, and will rejoice and praise also in afflictions. Already a year since we left Basle! Should you now wish to have been left at Basle or Corcelles? I think not. Frederick may be to you a new comfort for the 4 whom we left at home: and who knows if we ever should have returned to India under the present dark cloud hanging over this Mission. Let us pray that the Lord's will be done. Silver and gold is his. He may soon put to shame all the unbelief of the Committee and its Missionaries.

We have heard from Calicut that Mrs Huber has still occasionally her attacks, but has hopes of becoming mother, which would be a great consolation to Huber. The Elisa of Titus and Therese at Codacal are much liked by Fritz. So here there is some fruit of your former labours also. The Lord be praised that we are permitted to see already some fruits whilst on earth. Love to all

 Yours affly
 H. Gundert

