Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry

 Kaity 2 juillet 47
 <Friday>*
Dear papa.

The bearer of this to Out. shall I hope bring me news from you all. Mrs Albrech in writing you did not say the cause of her illness; Mrs. Muller writes that Mrs A had been fraited; one evening at their ride the bridle broke and the horse drove* them fast where it pleased; they had no fall or hurt; but fear, Mrs Greiner is expecting an other child. (ici point d'apparence de ce genre et il ni en a jamais eu)

You say that dear baby is nerves, it is of coarse no wonder; but it will passe I hope after some times. Mr Moerike has been again unwell; but is now better.

Have you not heard any thing of the Mengerts? Do you know how is Mrs. Fritz We have not heard here since a month. Is Marie Kegel quite recovered now? What kind of monsoon have you? Till now the Burgars have been complaining very much for having no rain for their feelds. Major Mension who came yesterday said that the rain had just began at Out. Mr Lascelles wish to buy this plantation from him. So perhaps we would have to leave this; but the house at Kotagarry is not yet billed or repaired. Noris Groves is expected in this month. Some days ago Mr West paid us a visit, he is very staut and has cut off his beard compleately, he stumers more than he did formerly. 
How is going on Paquer and his wife? Are the Europeens children well give my Salams to Ebenezer. Tell Marie to pay attention to Anna whom Mrs Weigle say was empressed with truth some times. Show also love to Ebenezer for the love which shone to our dear children by others. How is the large big girl? Please to mind the essent Dulsis and keep it .

We have betwen 13 and 15 degrees so it is pretty cold. I would not like cooler. The household send you salam. I hope the cooli has returned to you The conversation alwaise salted of Buhler are truly edifying and of a great comfort. Give my love to all. Kisses to babe.

 Yours affectionate
 J Gundert




1Davids Beischläferin Elizabeth, Maria, Tiatti, Schwägerin oft, Sarah, Cornelius Weib Simon's Weib, Samadhanam, durch Hülfe Michels, sprach mit Ovah drüber, die Schwägerin sagt ______ habe wirklich Maranam gethan, darauf auch Mutter und Weib, Kudala alle besessen. 1 Pareien adaktes - darauf den Puleien, von Cotacal <Kalyana Madan> in Matth's Haus, der Reis bringle heißt, und den Sohn herausbringt, Senf auf seine Strasse gestreut durch Changaren, einen ________ - Aaron's Weib Ovah von Anand gerufen - mit Snehi verhandelt drüber -

Josua mit Ruth Micha Martha mit Gnanam Thom's T.

Rebecca, Mtt's Weib mit Mpl und Menon

Schwägerin __________________ Kind - Frucht und Oel gestohlen durch Michael und Cugnen

