 Katairy <11 Juni 1847.>*
 <Frtg>*

Dear papa.

The Chapelain Whitehead paid yesterday his visit of Adieu goin to Madras. Mr Nores Groves and Franck with his wife are expected here the next month. If you can spare for me some bottles of Essens Dulcis pray do it and keep them Mrs W. has also great confidance in the Halish medecines and makes use of them. Elle est venue ici avec une complainte semblable c'est … dire de trŠs grandes pertes; maintenant elle est trŠs bien; cependant ce r‚el mieux n'a pas paru avant 6 mois pass‚ ici.

Arthour Lascelles is it seams doing pretty well in his farm twice a week we have butter from him, he supplys nearly all the people here up Weigle and B. have taken out the potatoes from the ground that we may have some before the porequpines had finished with them; they are yet very small, but many some time thirty and some at one plante. Some days ago the horse keeper of Mr. Moereke, father of the wife of Stephen at Mangalore died from dyssentery and fever.

The 9th Mr. and Mrs. Lascelles passed by, asked much after you, they were kind and aimiable, invited me to spend some times with them, spoke of the Groves leaving Chittoor, their having bought nearly all the feelds round Chittoor, filled them with malbery trees, than changed to padi feelds, and left one does not know to whom. Not a word of evel against the G was said, they were pretty nice, spoke of Flora B., than went to the plantation of their son which is a few miles from this place.

Well I have for a long time sung a lamentable and mournfull song. I now hope by the grace of God to begin a joyful one. Though I am not quiet out of the pit, and have yet some hedges round me he who made me to lift up my head over them, will bring me out in due time. For ten days I have took of the medecines ordered. After the fourth or fifth day I felt a great irritation and much pain in the low parts of my stomack. And I have yet pain, but less. four days ago I gave up all medecines, he who has begun to make my mind, my head better, to turn my darkness and sadness to light will also bring every things right in his good time. If the distress of my mind is gone, than I shall be able through faith to praise and rejoice in pain and weakness.

I hope to have a letter from you tomorrow when this shall be taken to Outacamund Dis moi si Isabella a ses mois, tu sais qu'ils n'‚taient pas lors que j‚tais … Tellichery.

Dear papa Mr Albrech is very anxious to have some seeds for the garden. Could you not send him some of ours from home. Here we can get none to send him.

Friday 11th <Juni>* the Cooly has not yet come. Some who came the other day from Cannanore with Kissingen waters, books, etc were twelve days in the way, by Mysoor
 Yours aff J Gundert

