Mrs Gundert, care of Mrs Hodges1 <Revd Mr Weigle>*, Ootacamund1 <Kotaghery>*, pd

Frederick in excellent spirits, tries always to stand.

 Tell 25. Oct. 47.
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

I don't know if I have written to you, since I was in Chomb. <(18)>* All there have repented and confessed, Paul esp. "who stinks before God" and who accuses himself of being the cause that his household is not as yet all saved.<">* Daniel and Christina very nice, the Lord has searched them all and found many hidden things. Paul's mother, else so nice, rather unwilling to confess - knows very little of great sins. Silas is going on in childliked implicity complains chiefly that his work engrosses him so much. He caught for 1 R. fish in the rainy night when I slept over there. Matthai is killed: has been brought to acknowledge that unconverted: prayed with him for a new birth. - Irion this time in Anjerc. the word proceeds, tho' slowly. There are also dreams and other strange things connected with some, of which however I do not like to speak. - Today we prayed again in the forenoon, Christ. M. confessed and so we went round again and humbled ourselves before the Lord. He heard us and gave us peace. Some of the little boys had after all confessed a little and returned to their old sins. This evening, whilst we were at tea, Hebich's Paul came trembling to me and said that the boys were praying in the dark, when all of a sudden the same spirit of repentance and tears and loud crying came over them. I went over to hear in the darkness this new musick, in Tellicherry where Satan's seat is! It went on for some time. But when the lights came, all silent as death. I addressed them and spoke to some of the worst (Wiggins boy, and Moses the brother of that thievish Mary), there they stood, the Devil in their faces, and I recommended to the others to pray for and strive against them. Afterwards a blessed word on assurance of pardon, and prayer. - Today my Br. Ernst will enter the university (Tubingen) - Pray also for him!

I am preparing Hagar, Martha, Lydia, Aline and Uranie for baptism. (perhaps also Milca) Anna for reception into the Church. - Rama and Hassan are preparing with F. Müller. We hope more boys will yet come out. - Praise the Lord with us for the knowledge of sin which he gives more richly every day - even to stupid people. It is more to be valued than signs. 
No box as yet. The Greiners etc seem to have arrived at Cannanore, else Hebich would have come over. The shoes for Mörike are perhaps not to be had, Heb. told me he would see, but they are at times difficult to be got. I shall try to send you the Cinnam. Oil. I hope to get light wine some where, or other: as for me I have given up wine for some weeks (without a vow) - only keep yourself quiet and away from people who talk to no purpose. May God himself keep you in rest and fill you with his peace
 Yours H Gdt

Perhaps Cotagiri is the best place for you

