Mrs. Gundert

 Tellich. 27 June 47
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday I received yours of the 22d and was glad to learn that the disquietude you experienced about Frederick has given way. The dear fellow has now also got over a little Mundfaeule, which had troubled him for about a week, and he is now really getting stronger, tries to raise his head and leaves Mary much more quiet in the night. His food - barley - agrees also very well with him, it appears to me better not to depend altogether on the Amah's milk. Mary has weaned him of the Schlotzer, as he could during the time of the sore mouth make but little use of it and he seams now to have forgotten it. Your news of Mary delighted me as I had not heard of her - the other letters about the children you will have received in due time, that is to say delayed by the enormous rains we had last week. Miss LaRoche wrote to Mary that she lately visited Mrs Ostertag and found Mary exceedingly happy and sportful. She said to Miss LaRoche you look like Miss Sabel (Chable) and Miss LaR askes if such is indeed the case. God be praised for what he does to us in our children.

I am much interested in the relation of your feelings, fears and doubts about your bodily sufferings. But as for the idea that le tems critique s'approche, I do not believe it till it be really the case, that is, till you have les rŠgles more and more sparingly. I never heard of European women entering the time of decrepitude before the 40th year: except perhaps if by some anomaly of their constitution they had their first menstruation long before the 14th year: or being early married and having born many children and sucked them their constitution was prematurely exhausted. As for the other supposition about Cancer I wonder you allow yourself to be so easily misled. The marks or symptoms of a cancer are something so plain, so manifest that there could not be any doubt about it, and the pains would be of quite a different description. But it is as you also say a mere temptation of the Devil and you are I hope, more and more convinced of the unreasonableness of such doubts, the more you will feel that the Lord is good to you also in your body and proves himself the Comforter and physician of both body and soul. - From Corcelles no news, but why do you always anticipate evil? Every thing is much better than you suppose: the heaven is not yet about to fall down, the elements do not dissolve, the earth not burn - and though all that should be the case, the love of Christ can not be quenched nor dissolved nor shaken, nor shall we be shaken or confounded by trusting in him. Have faith in God! Turn yourself from the old and past things to the new and better ones that await us. - We have bought an old Tier house quite close to the road, opposite to Mr Brown's house which is a good preaching place both for the Catechists and myself. May God bless this new opportunity for spreading the knowledge of his dear Son! I have been several times there and always had auditors enough.

Some days ago it rained so awfully that the Jangadu in Mahe could not go and the road was every where inundated. Now it is again very fine and little rain.

Mrs Hayes asked again after you - I told her my news. Vedamuttu has safely arrived in Palamc and seeks now office. We are all well and send you love. 
May peace be with You!
 Yours H Gundert

