Mrs. Gundert, Kotagherry, pd

 Tellich. 6. Dec 1847
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

I was prepared for any news rather than those conveyed by your few lines, beginning with the sweet resolution henceforth to write only once a fortnight. Have you so altogether forgotten your marriage vow, "to obey" that you just can choose to do something of the kind without any reference to my will? But my will declared repeatedly, is that you write once a week, and I have found no reason to change it, can therefore see no cause whatever for accepting the fine offer which you make. If once a fortnight, why not also once a month? Going on at this rate, your letters will at last be so short and rare, as angel's visits, until they deserve to be printed with golden letters!

The truth is, I had heard a very bad report of your health from English sources and seeing days after days pass without letter, was beginning to be prepared for the worst, and had received Mrs Weigle's cover with the prayer: now dear Saviour give and keep to me a dear apprehension of what thou art to me, that no bad news may shake my faith: - and after all, it is nothing but this little bit of parsimony. Suppose you write every day half an octavo page, will that tire you? Or one page in 7 days, is this too much. Can't you spend paper ink pen wafers, time nerves and fingers to such an extent? - I am really serious; what was the cause? Was it not a feeling of shame for having written the last letter? Because you yourself have offended a little your own vanity, you cannot so soon command your heart again to write to your husband! But you will do well in future to remember that you have given me most uneasy moments by these little own thoughts of yours, and therefore remain in the obedience of writing weekly whether you feel inwardly drawn or not.

Why you rake up the story of Fr's having been "so very ill" in your letters to me and Miss Kegel, I cannot understand. Did you mean it in fun? But I fear you are tempted continually to look back and fret yourselves with past things as if there were no present nor future joys to be thanked for. Oh I wish from the heart you would be more childlike, continue to think little of your ownself after you have once begun so to do, and think more of that mercy which bears us through our life. Satan will try again and again to make you displeased with our heavenly father's doings. I beseech you do not yield to him. As you have not repented your wish to tell Mrs I. about the ribbons, I have not done it for I fear to act for you on what may merely be a momentary emotion. If you wish me to tell her, say so distinctly that I may know if I may do it in your whole and entire name. - Thoughts of you dejected me much during my last visit to Chomb and Vadag. But the Lord refreshed me by the continuance of His work in those whom he has abased and made willing to be thought nothing of if only He accept them. Paul's wife is espclly in a blessed state. His mother who will not confess, grows darker.

To morrow I have to go to Cann. to act for Heb during his absence on a visit to Mang. But any answer to this will find me again at Tell. it is only for 8 days I remain away. - Irion brought again good news from Anj. - To the Comm. I have written strongly on the general consequence of their measure, after having first submitted to what concerned us privately. Mglg's step - though I believe it is not of God - may be used by God to open their eyes But we want only selfabasement, and nothing that comes from without will be able to move us. May God be with you, comfort and strengthen you and give you what can renew the powers of body and soul beyond all our expectation

 Yours HG

Love to the brethren and Mrs W.

Frederick has 4 teeths and is exceedingly clever to gain one's favour very stout and busy says Hott! Pa - Ma etc

