Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tell. 31 Jul 47
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

I was sorry to hear you felt yourself so low in spirit for months. Of course I cannot explain the reason: God's permission, is also a poor commentary - you ought much quicker come to the determination that it is Satan, who tries to take away your props and stays - of course this work is easier when also the bodily frame is exhausted. Therefore I beg you in such cases to try more earnestly to believe God against belief, call sun by its name sun, father by his name father, though the clouds thicken between. At last all things must be seen to have worked together for our good, even these evil days. May God do with you far beyond our thoughts and prayers. 
We had these days some sad experiences of the little we can do against Satan. Mark has been discovered to be one of the blackest hypocrites. Susanne also has given cause to Baker to put her away, but happily he is just in a nice way and has forgiven her. On the other hand I had 2 baptisms in Chombala (Maria Matthai's wife, who behaves very well and believes as far as we can see - and Hawah of Timotheus family in Mahe, a nice elderly woman) and a blessed Lord's supper, with the Chombala and Mahe people (12 in number). In Vadagara especially open doors to preach to the people, the Tiers are there by far more humble than in Tellich. where I often feel as among serpents and scorpions when passing the evening before the preaching house near the entrance of the town. But occasionally I find also there quiet hearers, f. i. a Mapla who acknowledged original Sin and that we are by birth children of Iblis (devil) he seemed ready to acknowledge the truth of all what Scripture says about the wickedness of the human heart and shewed himself throughout humble and diffident of his own wisdom. - We have resolved <19 Juli>* to print a Malayalam Missionary newspaper, once a month, the first Nro. has been distributed - 50 Copies in all each to be paid with a fanam annually. The Christians in the 3 stations are taking it gladly, as far as appears at present. -

Mattu had the real smallpox, others only waterpox, but for 2 months nearly the whole time sickness did not leave us, yet none died. This is also a great blessing. Mattu's wife was very chickenhearted in his illness. Thomas on the contrary made himself ill with attending on the sick. - Marie K. has I hear written about Frederick, who is now getting stronger, very angry when laid down, happy especially when carried through the garden. He is indeed a nice little fellow. May God bless him and the other 4 far above what parents can do! My love to the brethren. The house greets you 
 Yours in J Christ
 H Gundert
