 <? 20/3 März? 1847>*

My dear Sir <(Brown)>*

It is some years that I last wrote to you, and the hope to see you on my short visit to Europe has been frustrated. I am however cheered by the prospect of soon seeing you in Malabar, a hope Mr Brennen is pleased to hold out to me from time to time.

As I donot know how soon that may be, I take the liberty to send to you few observations on the changes which as it seems your late orders h... occasi...1 in Anjercandy. I could foresee that in the present commercial crisis retrenchments might become necessary in your plantation. But I could hardly bring myself to believe that it was you who ordered the retrenchments to fall heaviest on the poor and on the Christians. The Cherumer labourer, has now a greater daily task imposed, than before and receives his fanam once in 4 weeks instead of every 3d week. It is right that he should suffer along with his master. Perhaps he deserved this for alas he showed he has pin to spare for toddy but then there might be more equality whereas the Tier labourers who for the same work are paid better, remained at least hitherto untouched by this change. Then the Catechist is told that henceforth he will receive 5 Rs instead of 10- and on remarking that it seems hard to reduce his salary by half, he learns that thus much can be given to him, and if not satisfied he may go. I expected this for some time: for the Tier Menons and other Heathens had been long flattering and murmuring why spend so much in instruction for Christianity etc? of course it was a grievance to them, seeing that even the weak light, which Christianity spreads, in such a dark spot rouses much opposition in those whose evil lusts if it can not thwart it does at least reprove. now it might be quite just, to introduce this reduction of pay to the Cat. if those other employ‚s were also to bear a part in it, which is not the case as far as I can learn. I might also be silent and add monthly some Rupees to the Catechists' salary, if I did consider it as merely a monetary question, but I prefer to give you an opportunity of showing if you are any how tired with imparting Christian instruction to your labourers. Much has been done by you for this purpose - the sums spent since 1835 cannot be inconsiderable; and I must confess the fruits in the shape of a morality to be appreciated even by enemies are not at all in proportion with the seed sown. One great cause of this is that Christianity seems on the one hand to be commanded to the people, while on the other it was not treated with the respect it deserves. But on this head I would not enlarge, it might appear as if I wished to bring accusations; and to change hearts is neither your nor any man's province, let that rest with God: only I would beg you if you wish to proceed with the work commenced kindly to order that a certain proportion be observed in the reductions, that it fall more heavily on those, who will thereby only suffer a diminution of luxuries than on those who have little more than what satisfy their real necessities: and chiefly that this change be not made palatable to the Heathens by showing to them that if any farther sacrifice be required Christian instruction will be the first thing thrown overboard.



1Mrs Gandart

Madam

My present and deplorable circumstances induce me to bring to your notice that during the time that Revd. Gandart was in charge of the poor fund, my Husband discharged his duty with zeal and satisfaction, in the absence of Revd. Gandart, Revd. Miller informed my Husband that the fund has reduced to an extreme poverty, and that was impossible to afford a dresser and he was discharged; This 10 months ago the only hope we have is the arrival of Dr. Gundert and now I beg Madam, that through your interference, we will be provided* by causing my Husband to restore* his former employ uninterruptedly and thereby greatly afford a relief and favor on us -
__________________________________I beg to remain
__________________________________Madam
Tellicherry_______________________your very obedt and obliged Servant 9th* March 1847* _________________Maria Laporte




1I Sheikh Haroon, Tindal of the Pattimar Selamti, do herewith engage to convey the Rev D. H. Gundert and five Ladies with servants and baggage from this port to Tellicherry, touching at Honore and Mangalore, under condition that the delay occasioned by visiting these two places do not exceed 3 days, or if it do exceed that term, I be paid 5 Rs for every 24 hours. I promise to provide the Company with firewood and good drinking water. The sum to be paid to me for the whole passage to be one hundred Rupies (Rs 100--).

Bombay 17 Febr. 1847.
 (mark of Sheikh Harun)
______________

