Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich. Saturday 8 May 47
My dear wife

Monday <3 Mai>* morning in 4 hours to Cholacal - counted the windings and turns of the road - gave tracts to the Peons - had no rice, but some eggs for dinner, evening on to Vandur, where I found the Tahsildar with Catcheri in the Bangalow, so I had some hearers till the Cooly came after me. There came also Capt Price (?) who has seen Weigle in a Bangalow near Mercara. Tuesday <4 May>* morning early to Ariacodu, with 3 irons on the horse's 4 hoofs, therefore slowly - stayed there, had horse shod - in the night to Putiangadi, by boat, then till 11 o'clock to Tamracheri (and fasting) lay there till Paul and Thomas came as agreed upon - brought bad news, nothing to be done for the latter, all the Nayers up against him. Thomas fed me with some Jackfruit, till at sunset Cannen came and gave me breakfast dinner and tea at once. Had there several people to speak to, but the dread of Thomas is universal, it being his neighbourhood - Thursday <6 Mai>* afternoon to Nadavenur - stayed there till Friday <7 Mai>* evening, beset by people who knew me from the first visit. In the night by backwater to Vadagara and this morning early to Tellicherry. Found baby well, had cried some times, but laughs immoderately when I sing to him. His eyes well opened, ears and mouth too - but the same want of fleshiness as formerly. The Ammah very quiet, Marie K busy for the child and children - all others well. Theophil and Andrew in Calicut died from smallpox the Sunday <2 Mai>* we spent together in Sispara. I hope you are quiet and happy and do not bother yourself with cares.

Here everything green and bloomy, the rains have given to us a delightful hot season, however to others dreadful sufferings. 300 or more Moplahs of the Laccadives have taken refuge here, 3 of their islands were inundated, the palmtrees unrooted, houses blown to pieces etc.
May God give you much joy, health and peace through our Lord and Brother this is the prayer of
 Yours H Gundert

