Rvd H Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing.

 Katary fulls 27 may <47>*
 <Donn.>*
Dear papa

Il n'i a que quelques jours que tu as eu de nos nouvelles ainsi je ne sai trop que dire. Ta demandes touchant mes mois. Ils avaient finis le 8 et sont revenu le 23, mais moins fort qu'alordinaire c'est … dire moins que depuis cette derniŠre couche

Lundi le Dr of Otacamund est venu nous faire une visite, sachant qu'il y avait ici deux malades le Chapelain Romlenson l'a enguag‚ … passer ici dans une des ses course des environs. AprŠs lui avoir dit comment je me sentais, il a ordonn‚ des pilules. Des injections, et des goutes soir et matin c'est il me parait de la tinture d'acier. Il dit aussi que si la rupture qui s'est faite a mes couche ne se remettait pas avec les plastres je devrais peut ˆtre aller a Otacamund pour y etre soign‚e. Pense tu que ce soit n‚cessaire?

You have I suppose much rain now, here it is very pleasant til now very little rain we can walk every day This morning I have begun a early walk which I hope to continue every morning for the air is most delightfull and I trust this will strangthen me much throug the blessing of God. 
We have beautiful potatoes in our garden. but every night the porqupines feed on them so it is to be feared that we shall have none for ourselves. People are watching Mr Möreke is sautting* but nothing help. As for veg‚tables very few are to be had too, other kind of animals like them leave us but a very small quantity. Potatues are very dear here 1 1/2 Rupie the mound some times one may have them for 1/4 of Rp some of them seam to have felt some what of the sickness.

Please to tell me if dear Frederich is quite well, if he becomes a litte fat and staut how is his nurse and Isabella, how many times does he eat canjee and does he like it Does he eat allways of Arraroot perhaps he would like a littele saigo Do tell me. Dear Marie is he troublesome at night and how are you in your health and the dear sisters of Nettoor and Telli. ...es to all the Dear people, Kisses to the two babies.

Dis moi cher papa comment ca va avec vous tous; t'entens tu bien avec M K va t elle bien avec les soeurs. Mr Moreke continue d'ˆtre joliment, ici comme ailleurs les frŠres ont quelques m‚sentendu ce qui ote la communion de tems … autre.

Adieu cher Mari On se r‚jouit bien de te voir ici tout le monde ainsi que moi mˆme

Que la paix et la Grƒce repose sur vous tous ChŠre Mme W est bien aimable 
As regarding Flora B the consomption seams to have began two yars ago when she had a bad cold from which time she has cough more or less Miss Hales has said some one that she had no doubt that F. was prepared to meet the Lord in whom she had believed.

Mrs W has written to Mr Mogling about my box.

Yesterday we had 21 degrees so rather hot to day it is raining and pretty cold at Ootacamund it is much colder one can see his breath and many people complain of having a cold, though they like it

 Now Adieu
 Yours aff J Gundert

