
 <ca. 16 Septbr 47.>*

I just receive yours of the 9th. Thank for it. My mentioning Chum<bala>* I submited it to you of course as a thought which had accurd to me, first thinking that Marie may be more happy with me alone there, 2 then that we could live cheaper there for we would manage every thing with the girls without any servant, 3 that we may be of some use to the women there, 4 our school may perhaps incriese more. I have no fancy about it so if you think, it is better to remain together; I am quite ready. We shall try to be as useful as possible. I believe I have a gift for economy in house keeping, so I sall see when I come down to take that part. Do not say anything about it. Je n'ai jamais dout‚ que Marie ‚tait soup‡onneuse ce qui malheureusement lui rendra toujours son existence p‚nible, ainsi, qu'… ses alentours; Mais avec tous il faut supporter, that is a part of the crook in our common lot.

Give my thanks to Arabela. I shall answer afterward.

Mr Groves has said to a freind of him who was here yesterday, that if Mrs G would consent to live on the Hills instead of England, he would settle here. The business at Mysore goes fast every day letters from W. and Mogling W. once did faint or swooned away caused by the exitement to have to preache before the Missionaries; so he was carried from the pulpit. 
An other letter from Miss Le Grand to B yesterday, says "Marie G. is very well, shows much understanding, with a childish and playeful* spirit. Now good bye

 affly yours
 J G.

