Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing.

 Katairy 2 September 1847
 <Thursday>*
Well dear papa.

You leave me long enough without a letter too; for it is now 12 days since I had not a letter but a few lines of you in the children's letter. Yet I hope nothing important is the cause of it! If I was a clever woman as Mr. W. you could have every day pages and pages full from me. But though some time I could mourn and lament for being such an ignorent creature and such nothingness four you. Yet I must comfort myself: for every one has his gift. should the foot kick against the hand, or be displeased because it is not an other part of the body!

I wrote a letter to Mrs. Groves; He will send it in one of his own. We have heard of Mrs Greiner's confinement; if you have any thing about her and the babe tell us please? Mr Huber has also written, she is much better and has hope to be made again quite well.

We are all pretty well here; amongst the natives; much sicknesses; they all fancy this place very unwholesome.

Mr Buhler will soon go to Kotagherry to build the house; then we shall all go when it is finished; it is a little couler than this place; as for me I do not wish for any thing cooler as I am continually catching cold; "malgre" all my cares to avoid it; but it is rather damp in the houses and so for people who cannot walk much out, there is good opportunity to catch a cold; We have between 18 and twenty degrees this you would like very much I am sure; and I hope you will manage to be here 5 or 6 weeks; November will just be a fine season; As for me though I do no think right to go down long before Christmas I long to be in the hot climat; Thank God I continue to go on nicely, and am getting stronger, and more appatite every day. 
How is Marie Kagel? How is Christina at Chumbala? What do you think of our staying at Chumbala? How many times does babe drink canji? He may perhaps soon be wean? Is Christian walking or crawling?

the 3d well I must confess that I feel anxious it is now tow weeks that I had but those three lines from you in the Children's letter. Every one sais that the road from Calicut here is never practicable till november; and I am trouble thinking that perhaps you have tried to come up that road for 4 days we have been sending to Outacamund to look for letters and always nothing!

Ah please do not let me any more in such state.

My love to all. I have no corage to write any more till I hear 
 Yours aff
 J Gundert
3 December <Septbr>*

