Mrs H Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 25 Sept 47
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

Your last arrived on Monday <(20)>*, but I could not write before today having been again 5 days absent in the country, chiefly for a visit at Thomas' house. We went by way of Vadagara and Coilandy: where I saw Br Fritz's people and had a rather stormy meeting with the Brahmans of the temple. Then to Nadavenur, where there were again hearers as before. Thomas saw his wife, as he declared to her for the last time: but could make no impression either there or in his mothers house. They were without desease and had a good harvest, therefore no need of the Gospel. But I trust that our going has not been in vain, though we should look in vain for tangible results. - What you say about Hebich's letters to W<est>* makes no impression on me. Groves can hardly know W.<West>* sufficiently. You know that W's whole disease consists in his fancying perforce to be called to a sort of ministry by the word. We brethren generally do not find the gift in him. But because there are some who hear him patiently, he immediately writes to H. how the Lord blesses him in his humble ministrations, and I cannot for the life of me see any humility in his persisting to preach. You know how he walked in Cannanore as in a dream, how he hears but cannot keep any thing. Surely the Lord is not just now with English brethren in such an extraordinary want of speaking brethren that he should just call W. out of the number to make him a preacher. For this I say if W. wished to preach to the heathen or unbelievers he has my best wishes, and a calling from the Lord too. But to hanker after exhortation, to be given to brethren proceeds evidently from a wrong direction of his heart, a certain mistaking of his own calling. Else why think now and then of beginning a pilgrimage etc - But I judge him not, only I say: Groves does not know the case so well as Hebich: and H has laboured faithfully for W's soul but G. was the person on whom W. continually lays the charge of having first called him to the work of ministry. He once called the letter of G. his seal of ordination. No wonder that G. can not now readily acknowledge to have erred with regard to W's vocation. - The Cannanore brethren have come round and begged Thomas to pardon them. But do not talk of these things to others who cannot feel with us here, to whom H. is the next and surest friend. For we have none so worthy of being beloved or so ready to help and serve with self devotedness. - On Sunday 4 boys of the Seminary were baptized, a happy day for us, and I hope and pray - for them too. - A girl of a Tamil horsekeeper's relations, kept very hardly, has left him and run to us. she is pretty accustomed now to our ways, but at first was very barbarous and stupid: something* like that Cavai girl in Mangalore. - Missy has I observe not yet written. She went today with Miss Kegel down to Tellich so I cannot exact it now. It will come afterwards. Frederick has been happy beyond description about my return this morning He laughed in such a stolen manner, hiding as it were his inmost joy, till it broke out in loud shocks. He is really getting strong and becomes an amusing child. - Mrs M's baby is also strong. But Mary's in Vadagara beats all - he is not a month older than Fred but crawls rises sits and lays most cleverly hold of all he sees.

We have now written home to beg for permission to build and shall see what answer will come and when. - Mrs Greiner is I believe after some time to go to the hills too. Mrs Huber is better He is to come here next week for the baptism of Christian's girl.

But now farewell. Greet your noble friends and guests. Tell me if you can understand the Malayal newspaper. Your letter home I sent through Ostertag. 
With our love to you and all
 Yours HGdt

