Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Larkhill Ootacamund <Anfg Octbr 47>*
Dear papa!

Thank for your last recieved Thurday <30 Sept>* evening. The malayalam newspaper; I do not understand perfectly; yet I have pleasure to read them, and by this means I accustume meself a little to read, something else than the Bible. As all the family Cockburn came to the Lascelles on Friday <1 Oct.>* I left them on Saturday <2 Oct>* against the will of the L. it is true; for they wished to keep me; I have promised them, that I shall stay, please God, a longer time afterwards, Mrs. L. was so found to drive me in the carage every day; that for the present I prefere to be more quiet; and so I am here with the friends West; who are very kind too

As the Dr says it would be better for me to be at Out. than at Katary; for the air is more strengthening here than there; it may be I shall remain here for a few months. What do <you>* say of my staying with the L.? I shall make me self useful in her school. Some people call them here the lying family; but what is that to me, I have but to be salt and light where ever I am and I feel free towrds them. Mrs L seems to have much confidence in me. So hoping the Lord grant me faithfulness with them, I may be of use to her. Write also some times to me letters which I could read to them. As regarding his judgements towrds Mr Lyer he says that he may mistake; so keep for yourself what I wrote you in my preceding letter. Some one from Cannanore has been writing here, that Mr Hebich had said, that he ought to be considered as the thirteen apostle!

While I was at Burntfoot* with the Lascelles. I had again good deal of pain in my stomack so Mrs L. advised me very much to consult a Dr. So I did Dr Ranking not pious; but very kind man indeed came on Friday <1 Oct? 24/9?>* having assertained that it is the nerves which are in a debile and irritable state; he advises me to stay a longer time at Oot. As he is not found of giving much m‚decine; he has for the present ordered a mixture of Campher, Ammon, and Hyoscyami, of which I take three times a day. Though I do not like the cold, yet it strengthen me more than the dumpness of Katary. and I get up early every day to have a little walk with the rising of the sun, which together with a glass of cold water I relish. trusting with the blessing of God to recover entirely. I am very thankful to you dear papa to permit me to remain here as long as my state of health requires it, I am sure it is not a time lost The teaching of the Lord during this time of trials shall be profitable; If Marie K. was not with the dear babe; I could not think of remaining longer than this month on the hills; but the child being cared for, better than I could do, with a weak health, I accept to remain quiet and try all means the Lord so graciousely provides me with.

Weigle has returned from Mysore. I have not yet seen him, from dear Pauline I hear almost every day though we are 9 miles distant. I was less far with the L. It seems to me Mrs West is coming near the Lord, she is more open, less fine dresses, She dreads very much the separation from her husband who is to go to Cannanore on duty. I am rather glad to be with her during this beginning of trial. Till now the Begbees have lived with them in the same house, having their meals together; but they are going to separate again after a few days, as now many housses are to be let on the hills; on account of people going to le low country.

What I understand best in the newspaper is the story of _____________ __________________. It is now uncertain weather W shall go at Cannanore as he has written to Madras for a longer permission, or to be longer here She puts too much water in my milk. I shant stop long here, on thurday or friday I hope to go to the Hodges. Now the Weigle have settled to go to Kotagherry, they have rent the house of West there till the Mission one be finished. There would have no room at Katary for the Greiners with three children. They expected soon according a little note I had from Mrs. W. 
I have not yet seen the Begbees they are just now at Kotagherry for some days. but it seems they have but little life at present, to marry their daugters is now the chief business. Money money, as with many others is the principal object. How happy are those who have truly the Lord for their portion. They will not only serve him when all goes well, and when they do not want any thing from the world; such as husbands or wives. I have been reading in Newton's Omiron. and Baxter's saints rest. Some times I fancy to hear you rebuking my unbelief by some sentances which are so much alike. Poor Mr W. has a terrible temper with her servants. What a dreadful effect it must make on the natives but was I not so once? Well I hope the Lord has began to give me some what of that gentle spirit which is precious in his sight. And surely he who has began also the work of patience will continue it to his glory. I hope to write to Marie and Miss the next week 
Give my love to all kisses to baby Every new house where I stay for some days seems to renew my Heimweh. Yet courage and patience once I hope to see again those I love in this world.

Good bye dear Papa
 yours aff J Gundert

Si tu peux envoyer par les Greiners les souliers de Moerike il sera bien contant

