 <ca 26 Octbr 1847>*

Really my dear wife you do not seem to understand me, when you venture such expressions as "though you do not pity me" - it has spoiled your whole letter to me, and I wish you to reconsider the page on which this is found written in your heart. I pity you, I can surely say, as much as I ever pitied any one who knows the Lord and is troubled by Satan; Surely as much as I ever pitied myself since my conversion. But what shall I say? I cannot be sentimental to flatter the Devil, but would rather say to that, which troubleth you: Go out You unclean Spirit! and if I could pull it out, would do it at the cost of some drops of blood. There is in you something which represents to you always, as if you did love much and are little loved. Now I acknowledge before God that I have often been careless about showing you love, and that I have made the experience that even love for wife and children does not come or grow by itself, and I am guilty of many sins of commission as well as of omission in the point of love: I am not as tender, as a husband especially of a nervous wife ought to be and being generally slow to pray have not made your recovery in health and Spirit, such a constant subject of prayer as I ought to have done. In all this and much more I am guilty before God and before you; but God is witness, that the 6th Oct. has effected a material change also in this respect, and that I had nothing in my mind, which could be interpreted as want of pity for you. In our German prayers you are always remembered - since then. Irion esp. has been earnestly praying for you: and you may fancy how much such changes must have influenced me: so that I could not have written what shows a want of pity. There was perhaps something too much of ardent hope in me that you would at once enter into the same spirit, say or write what you have praying on your mind, and then throw yourself anew on the mercies of our Lord. Your letter to my parents was nice; I thought it showed you were again standing on a firm foundation. But it grieves me to see that you take in an evil part what I write joyously, in hope it may refresh you. Why should you not exult in the Lord who bears all your sins and cares? What hinders you? Is there not always a certain idea of work-righteousness in the unceasing selfreproaches which you are tormenting yourself with? Surely the Lord does not wish you to die from grief in order to atone for your sins. Even the most horrid pains, the most awful pangs of conscience and the worst death could not absolve you even of the lightest of your sins. Therefore I wish and pray that there may nothing stand between you and the cross, between your name J. a sinner, and the other J Christ our righteousness. Come unto me and I will give you rest.

