Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd




 Tell. 16 Sept 47
 <Donn.>*
My dear wife

I send you by this day's post the Mal newspaper and 2 letters from Ostertg and the children. What Ostertg mentions of Hebich, is altogether a mistake: he drew bills on England until March, all dated the 28th Dec 46 because he had not yet received notice on whom he had to draw in England after the death of Coates. In Basle they fancy he drew it all on one day to let the money sleep till it was wanted! - Well the consequence has been that Hebich has been summarily ordered not to draw any more money on any account; they will send money directly from Basle to the different stations. But I am sorry that they misunderstand him so much. We shall have ...1 <to learn>* more of the exercise of faith also in money matters. ...ll be pleased to hear of your father's and sister's visit in Basle. - Nothing was known here of Mrs Gr's sufferings, of which you speak, till Hebich came over yesterday and showed us a letter of Greiner who thinks of visiting the hills with his wife after the navigation has commenced - No meat is given to Frederick, but milk and canji of divers sorts. - I always sent my letters on Friday or Sunday, the days you ordered me to send at first. Today is Wednesday. - (or Thursday) I send them because there is a note for Bühler along with them. If you have received all, you must see on examining the post dates that one was sent every week without exception. - My best regards to Dr Hichens if you see him again. I hope he has a good wife. - We are all very well, no smallpox any more, Mrs Irion it seems in blessed circumstances. Her boy walks pretty well. Frederick continues to prosper, is excessively fond of looking at some fires in which we have burnt the bushes grown without leave during the Monsoon. Mrs Müller and her little daughter quite well. I hope you are following so many good examples and strive to subdue all spirit of fear regret and doubt. The Lord will hear our prayers and when we meet again we shall have our benefits also from this time of uncertainty and separation. Ostertag writes truly nice letters how I can picture Marie to myself singing without melody half the day long. With the blessing of God I hope more than one year will not be required for you, but we shall see how you feel in December. Also Strange advises you to remain a good long time. 
 With love to all
 Yours HG.

