Mrs Gundert, care of Mrs Hodges, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich 15 Oct 47
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

I wonder how that gives you anguish, what is intended for your joy! But I ought not to wonder seeing that the heart is always the same. How do you come to imagine that there is nothing for you, because others eat with good appetite. And God's table is certainly furnished in a much richer style than ours at Nettur. But perhaps his hand is too much shortened to reach till Ootacmd? Or he is afraid of the Ghats as you were? Or he has spent too much of His Spirit here and must now economize with the rest? Or how shall I interpret this word: but what to me! Poor woman, the very same: what poor men and women get here freely! Who does cut you off from blessings? Surely not the Lord who brought you to the Hills for your repose as you often thanked him: nor your sins, for they have led you to receive not to reject Christ. Really you ought to be thankful for what you have received, f. i. that the girls now confess sins done also in your time etc. All that sort reminds us of our many neglects and shows at the same time that the Lord will not punish but heal them. But you have still much of the Jew in you and can hardly believe in the Lord's free pardon except you be first flogged for your sins. Take the pardon first, and let the flogging come after wards, in the way in which St. Paul received it during all his course of service: not to pay him for his sins, but to be made partaker of His holiness. But I fully believe that till this letter reaches you the Lord has given you this and many other blessings in spite of your unbelief, and that you are now praising instead of asking: what to me? You know the answer: Curse and hellfire to you and to me for all our good and bad works since we believed: but grace peace truth and joy for every little grain of faith in His holy child and servant! Now you see all this you know and it makes me nearly ashamed to think that I must write it to you: as if you did not know it much better. Why can you not be like a child allowing father and mother to bother themselves about you, whilst you take your rest? This is a child's right. You have not to work in order to please God: but what you do is to spring from gratitude for his being so well pleased with you a sinner. Now forget visits and men and Ladies and children, kneel down and thank that you have a gracious father and a clever advocate to excuse you with Him, and the Spirit of adoption in the heart!

 Yours H. G.

