1Revd Hy Gundert, Tellicherry, Bombay

 <Magistrat Chatfield 27/28 August 1847.>*
My dear Sir

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your note wherein you wish me to prevent as an irregularity our Catechists going into the Bazar's and near the Mosques. You may be assured that we advice them carefully to avoid whatever leads to disturbance; but I should be afraid to pledge myself that no cause for complaining shall be left to the Moplas. They are many and we few, they have the Cutwal and Ameen on their side, we none of the authorities. Yesterday one of our men was invited by a Mopla to come near his shop to answer some questions - he reads the people begin to amuse themselves with throwing at him and to make a disturbance - whereupon the preservers of the peace take him alone up, and let the disturbers go away without a word. It does not appear to me that this is the way to discourage breaches of the Peace. Today 2 of the Christians spoke with some Tiers not in the Bazar but the Maplas encouraged by their success of yesterday collected and made a disturbance, and the Cutwal was immediately at hand to seize the 2 authors of strife, ridicule their religion and make unwarranted use of the regulations existing. I do not say this in the way of complaint, but to shew reason, why I cannot pledge myself to prevent our people from speaking in the general way in which you wish it. they know that the word of God will create enmity, they must not court it, but will have to learn its working in spite of every precaution. How can we tell them when walking through the Bazars, that they must hear every question every taunt and ridicule and never give an answer? We can therefore only promise that we shall do our best to avoid all strife and all appearance of disobedience to the authorities, whilst maintaining the right of speaking quietly concerning Christ where ever opportunity offers, going away where none will hear. Our speaking to the people has never during these 8 years been treated as an irregularity: and when Christians were occasionally ill treated in the Bazar a word of Mr Crozier's was enough to make even the turbulent quiet. Would it be too much to ask you for similar protection to some few peaceable subjects whilst they are confining their proselytism to so simple a process? 
