 <Nov/Dec 47>* <ca. 2 Decb 47.>*
 <Antw. auf Vaters Brf v 24/11>*
Dear papa.

I have not written the past week; for I think that once in fortnight will be sufficient <(hierauf Antw 6/12)>*. As Moerike is much better, it is not likely that he will Go home. You know that the 24th of March the Comity meeting is to begin here in the house of John G. it is already rent the Ladies with their husbands alltogether Mrs W. is to keep house then* at Out. for them all.

I take care of myself as much as possible; but progres goes slowly with me. 
I have sent a parcel by Greiner <Greiner 27 Oct - 30 in Chirac>* he will have left it at Calicut. I hope it will reach you before Chr. I have yet some what for Marie: which I hope to send afterward.

I shall be glad to give any thing from the box to Sister Irion, tell it to Marie who shall manage all. There was in the box my tipette like my red merinos gown, I should like to have it with two small moselin laine neckerchief. if a parcel cost much from Telli, let it then till Mogling come in March. Do you not know that letters in a parcel are against regulation? Mr W. Mörike Buhler are still at Katary. W. is to come soon, People seem to be a little displeased with the Comity's letters; but I d'ont know well what they think.

I am glad to have such account of dear baby. The Ostertags were moving in the new house. Mrs LeGrand has written, it is I suppose the reason we had nothing from them. But she sais that all the children were well. 
My love to all
 Yours
 JG.
______________

