Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Outacamund 29 Ot. <47>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa.

Though I have written you not long ago, I will still send you these few lines before going to Kotagherry. Mr. Weigle had said that he would come and fech the Children; but now he has written that they have to go alone. I am going with them, hoping to stay after ward with Mr Buhler and Moerike; I have now been these 10 days with the West and the children with me. She is very much the same as ever; He is nice; seems to read more than He did, and employes himself at some what or other business in his house. 
Their three children are going at school they improve a little General West does not like them to separate, so she is uncertaine weither she shall follow him in Jenuar when he goes to Cannanore. Mrs Hale is said to have ask home for a Master of dance; and so will have teaching dance in her school. 
There are many fine friends here. A meeting is kept at the Brigandier Tompkins every Friday.

Have you among your books a small one entitled "heart ease"? if it was put in to malayalam you would like it and it may be very useful. I value it very much it has done me good lately; it is a work of John Bunian. 
Mr Mogling has repented of the though he had regarding the Mission, you know what I mentioned before. Entre nous.

How are going on the people who have been awakened lately at Tellicherry and Cannanore?

Can Frederich sit quite alone? is he on the all as troublesome as were our other children; which milk does he drink in one of your letter you speak of an ass what is that?
Poor dear Buhler a eu encore un refus, tu sai que Mlle Laroche est marri‚e une autre que Dehlinger cherchait pour lui a refus‚, encore, Une autre qui l'epouserait volontier est retenue et empˆch‚e par son pŠre, Il sent bien sa solitude; Je lui souhaite une bonne femme et cela aussitot que possible; mais il est … craindre qu'il sera encore longtems gar‡on, s'il attend de l'Europe du reste. Having no news to give you, I must conclude in sending love to all, kisses to dear babe.

Yours afftly
 J Gundert

Next week Weigle is going to meet the Greiners at Sispara.

I am pretty well thank God, I am now quite sure that the peine of my stomach is a nervous peine, the Dr says I must continue the Medecines for three months at least.

I would have written to Arabella, but I have been so troubed about since I have been waiting for Weigle every <day>* shall we go or not go. Now I expected to leave this morning; but no bearers were to be had however I hope we shall have some tomorrow Friday

