Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich. 5 Aug 47.
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Grace and peace be with you and the whole household of faith. - I am so happy to receive your more quiet letters (of 28 July) and to read that to Mrs Ost. and Marie. If we rejoice in the Lord the whole world will not be able to take away our joy, because it can not take away Him. He is life and resurrection, physician medicine and health. Thank Mrs Weigle for the kind note she added. I have no time to write now, but beg you to promise an answer in my name. These 8 days I have been kept at home, not by the weather (though it is as bad as in June) but by the revelations which God in His mercy granted us about the inroads which the Devil has made amongst our young people. God be praised that He through a wonderful string of events has thrown light upon light into our darkness, and has not spared us a number of heavy disappointments in order to make truth and repentance the base of our whole building. Mark has now returned a second time and submitted to the Lord's chastisement. Others have been brought to the light and the Lord has heard the prayers and groans for our recovery. It is all too long for telling and I fear to speak of things as yet so new and small, but I doubt not that Satan has received a signal blow and that it will now be our fault, if no new outpouring of the Spirit of grace does follow. Pray also for the same that we may have whereof to rejoice when we are once gathered in with the harvest.

Theodor has written me a nice letter, I shall send it as soon as I find time to answer it first. You know I became better acquainted with Him only in the last months through correspondence. -

When Groves comes, be friendly with him beyond measure. I learn that he is much cast down, greatly changed in his views, that Frank (who should have believed it) defends now the Plymouth views against him, and that Buri had the formal charge of the brethren to cast Groves out (or something of the kind). The brethren who formerly at Cannanore are now at Bangalore have seen and heard Groves and were much pleased with him. Tell him how I should like to see him and converse from face to face.

Hebich has been over here on Wednesday and laboured to bring Susanna and her mother to rights. His visit has not been in vain. - There will be much to hear and to say when we see each other the next time. I pray it may be not too far off. Though I should not bring you down, I am ready to look after you when the rains are over. But this is in God's hand. He cares for us. Frederick is very nicely, and sleeps more than formerly, when, once awake he could hardly any more be put to sleep.

Theodor greets Mörike with whom he has been in school.

Love to all the brethren, and Mrs Weigle. Grace be with you in incorruptibility!

 Yours in Christ
 H. Gundert

