Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry

 Katairy 13 june <47>*
 <Sonnt.>*
Dear papa

Yesterday I said I would not write till I have an anseur to my little note; but as it was again a nonsense, I better acknowledge it. You have seen the dear Hebich and have been refreshed. But why are not others stations as his. Let every brother be as he is he shall see blessings too. The Lord requires of us obedience, dilligence. If we had a lively faith, that we are a chosen generation, Royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; it would not be difficult to shew forth the praises of him who has called us out of darkness in to his marvellous light. Begin to sow in the morning and not let rest our hands till the evening would become an easy task. Let any one follow the footsteps of H. who is acknowledge blessed. Got up with prayers and praises, a frugal breakfast, then a time of meditation and prayers (Precious time which I have so fearfuly neglected, had I followed it I might perhaps have escaped to pass through terros, darkness, and the shadow of death)

Than preach to whom? to the first beggar, to the first who come at the door, if none come go out and seek, for this work we came in this land; but for many it would have been better to remain at home. If we do not feel any love which presses us to speak of the love of God yet through obediance to the faith We may begin that blessed work which will by the exercise make us to pray. Yes to pray and blessings shall come and will come. Ah for a lively faith, a dowelling in God. May we long and ask. May I recive a mind to praise, and sing unto the Lord, speaking good of his name, in uprightness and childlike.

Dear papa I hope you do not think that I wanted to make a lesson, but these last days I was occupied with the subject "how to glorifie God," how to show his praise, is it not in telling to all of his love and merci and try to turn men to him who gives Eternal life, and who will have sinners saved. Mr Casamajor was with us to the preaching.

As Mr Weigle is going just now at Out I must harry to give him this, I am thank God pretty well with love to all
 yours aff J Gundert

