1Mrs Gundert $.#$

 Tellicherry Okt. 1th 1847
 <Friday>*

My dear sister

As Mr Gundert is sending a letter off tomorrow I will embrace the apportunity of sending you a few lines. We were all very glad to hear from your last letter which we received a month ago that you are improving in health I hope it will continue and be always better. O how great is the loving kindness of our Lord who does not deal with us after our sins nor reward us after our iniquities how longsuffering is he and full of mercy. O that men o that we would praise the Lord for his goodness and declare his wonders which he doeth to the children of man. Indeed we have reason enough to praise the Lord for he is our refuge and our salvation under the shadow of his wings we lie in peace and safety the Lord enable us to praise him for all that is past and trust him for all that is to come. You have very likely long ago heard the news of the safe confinement of Mrs M端ller. Sister M端ller and the baby are very well the baptism was on wednesday. her name is Christine Marie our children are at present all well the small pox are not amongst us now. little Christian is walking now quite round the house alone he is sometimes rather proud of it and calls papa ___________. 
Your dear baby does grow very fast he is very fond of laughing he puts his little arms with kind tenderness round the neck of his dear nurse. The weather is now pretty fine Pauline and Mary are often complaining of cold but I do not find it so. My dear husband also the sisters join with me in love to you. Please to give my love to Mrs Weigle.

 Your sincere sister
 J. M端ller.

1As I do not like to pay double postage, here a little more. I baptized M's daughter. - Frederick is weaned since the first of September - and now as it is over and he is fast improving I am exceedingly glad. For I do not like native nurses, except they be believers. In the end of the first week he became a little sickly, but the Lord heard the prayers and blessed the means, and he is now lively and joyful in spite of the beginning teething, such as he never was with the Amah. He is a darling, no dearling. I shall try to meet B端hler at Calicut. - Vedamuttu has come again from Tinnevelly and is repenting. Ananden is a dry stick. Arabella rather nice. - Dorcas mother with all her children and the grandson is since some months in Quilon, as Thompson had invited them, I could not say no. -

