Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich 12 June 47
 <Samst>*
My dear wife

I was glad to hear again from you, though the letter by its shortness and by telling me of your feverish disposition did make me a little anxious about you. By this time I hope you can give some better news about you. I received it on my return from Vadagara and Chombala where I found all in a state that called forth thanks and praise to our God. Paul's brother in law is now repenting and about to believe with his whole family (wife and 3 nice children). The ennemy is also up: but he feeling his weakness thought it but at once to take his abode in Paul's house, where now they have hardly room to move or to sit. His name is Bappini, and he had for a long time partly against better feelings, hated and denounced the name of Jesus. Next week I shall go over again. Maria in Vadagara and Christine in Chombala gave me joy by their frank and open behaviour. Matthai seems on the whole well placed there and Jacob's wife though still a heathen has nothing to say against the prayers of her husband and children. Jacob is however a weak man and requires to be prayed for. He has something superficial about him - you know probably that he formerly did drink and led a bad life. But it is of great benefit to him to have now his wife in pretty good order. 
It must have been a real pleasure to you to find again some little fruit of a time already 10 years behind us. We would not wish to live them over again, but still find many traces of our Lord's good hand over us, when we review them occasionally. Miss Kegel thanks you for your recollections and inquiries. She is pretty well, Frederick shows his general health to be in good order, for the vaccination has only produced a little feverishness for a day. At present he is very calm generally laughs much after bathing, but nervous when he hears a loud voice f. i. mine. He looks more and more like you: when he is older I shall have work with him to steel him up a little, at present he is treated with a tenderness as great as the best prince in Europe enjoys. They will not even allow me to take him in the Verandah, when they fancy there is any thing the matter with him. By night they shut all and there they lie, Miss K, Missy the little Master, Isabella or Dorcas, and the Ammah, with the little girl attending her. Irion's Christian is quite well. We have rather a quiet Monsoon. Not much of high wind. Through Mrs Albr's writing to Miss Kegel I heard the other day that you are often sad on account of the separation from the little boy, Br Mörike must have written it: and I believe it to be the case; but can only wish that all sadness may soon be turned to joy which is the particular work of the Comforter, one of the things which he takes from Jesus and gives unto us. Let us always be anxious to employ him for suchlike good offices. When I hear from home I shall send the letters speedily to you that they may also contribute to your consolation and cure.

Give my christian love to the Weigle's Bühler and Mörike and try to be also something for them, not only receiving, but contributing to their edification and joy in our Lord Jesus Christ. May he be with you and  Your H. Gundert

