Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing

 Outacamund <30 Sept 47>*
 <25./30. Sept>*_______<abgesandt>*
Samedi, <25 Septbr>*

Dear Papa.

If once I could fill you a large page I would indeed be glad. But Alas. the end of reading it would be concluded, by many lines, but! - Mrs. L. kindly took me for a visit to Dr Schmid, who, was invisible; being kept in his bedroom for headach. Mrs Schmid is a manly woman, with much experience in the christian life; she pleased me well. her eldest daughter, said by the Gentlemen of the place "an accomplised Lady" is a nice simple looking girl; likes the world pretty much. The father said one day; that his daugter would never mary a Missionary; neither would she be fit for one. 
Miss Hale with her assistant Miss Müller dined with us yesterday; I must say, that I expected something more spirituel in the old lady. I am afraid she is driven some what away by the great world, the whole conversation during dinner was bitter complaints against Mrs Groves He is a nice man; but she is so so and so. After dinner Mr L. and* Miss H. plaid at chest or what I do not know the name. She invited me to take tea, with her on monday; But such evening in company makes me fidgited and gives me restless night, so I have excused me self till I be stronger

Sunday <26/9>* I went to Church; heard a good discourse by Mr Alcock about Lydia's heart being opened by the Lord. But as I had not heather to, heard or seen a Service performed intirely in English; I found it too long. The church was full: Mr Casamajor was at my side, who sends you salam. I have also looked at Flora's tomb. Mrs Hale has no doubt that Flora was ready to meet the Lord; though she, nither any of the houshold had the slightest idia that she was near death, even the morning she died, till she was delirious. I will try to see Miss Hale by herself once; perhaps I may come a little nearer her heart. I hope also to find good moments with Mrs L.<ascelles>* He does not speak much. I truly like him; Many of his remarks please me. This morning he spoke of boys being brought up in Institution. how important for them it would be to learn trade of any kind. Ruth sends you Salam, she is doing work in the house with her daughter Sarah. Dear Pauline W<eigle>* with whom I exchanged every day few lines, seeing by mine, that I have "heimweh", came to spend monday with us, as it was raining she slept with me. I do not remember to have been with any one so closely united as I feel with her.

Give my thanks to Marie for her last and to Miss. I hope to ensewr afterwards. Thanks alo for the Malayalam newspaper, when you have again do not forget me please.

Tusday <28 Sept>* Miss Schmid spent the day here; poor day toilette, mariages, good and bad preaching, songs played on the piano has filled the day's conversation. Ah what, is it not misery and anguish, not to have been made free from the world and of the things of the world. Yea I may praise God that such conversation are but smell of death to me. Hhow much more happy are we to have not only a lifely faith; but a call to wark in the blessed vineyard of our father. I feel more then ever the necessity to be salt and light: to so much darkness with which we are surrounded even by those who profess to know Christ as a Saviour.

Mr L seems to be firm in his faith to a gratuit salvation in Christ Jesus, his prayers I like. he has a joyful and praising mind, Hopes for the future, thanks for the past. He does not think that Mr Layer know the truth. he seems to try in every way to please God, looking by these means to get rightousness, not knowning the one of Christ as sufficient to poor sinners. He is not at all clear, nor able to sustain a contradiction regarding the point salvation through pure grace. What do know and think about this? 
L likes Hebich, but he is convinced that he has much similarity with Mr Woolf regarding putting on singularities, and viewing them as gift, or worse to be regarded and observed by other. I then objected to him that Hebich is sincerely true and faithful: while Mr Woolf is known to be in many respects untrue, to this he perfectly agreed, et revers dear H. but cannot help dislike the putting on which makes him desagreable to some, and Enthousiasme to others.

I find in Newton many sentences which remind me of some conversations which passed between us regarding distrust and unbelief of mine. To such fearful and doubtful mind as mine he says "Indeed the Lord does not deserve such hard thoughts at our hands as we are prone to form of him: for he is gracious, and will shame us out of our unkind, ungreateful, unbelieving fears at last."

Well I feel that he strengthen my faith, and though some times I feel as before, still he has done me good and I feel more ussurance and confidance. I alo to his Glore, regardless creatures, and am less afraid to displeased them with the truth. Through fear I often sought the approbation of friends and losed the one of God. I hope I have gained in this respect. 
Wednesday. <29 Sept.>* Against my wish and desire Mrs L. would drive me about she went to Church, where we heard Mr. Deen, Notting against truth; but a poor sermon such stuff could not feed me. At my return I found a letter from Pauline and a long one from Buhler. He heard that I had heimweh and very kindly wrote a very nice letter. One of his sentences is "Open thy mouth wide; I will fill it." To feel very happy is not the way we have to go through. Jesus has paved another one which we have to follow. And once we shall say, I will praise thee though thou wast angry with me" He sends you love.

On Friday <1 Octb>* Mr W. is expected; perhaps then we shall go to Kotagharry. I hope Monday <(4 Oct)>* to go and spent a few days with the Hodges, then some with the West. Mr L* wish me to stay much longer: but I would rather come again afterwards, and if I am strong enough, teach every day in her school, which is not far from the house.

Mr Frank came yesterday to pay as visit to his parents. Mrs L is some time pretty much anxious about her two boys; but I fear she minds more their welfare in this world, than their turning sincerely to God. Poor people are they who mind so much to be a Gentleman and not a beggar, as they say, Money, money, that is the great thing. The Eldest son F does not like any more plantation's business, He would like to be a Civilian. And the worst of all, is, that Mr G. is the cause of his being out of it, as Mr L* was influenced by G. when it would have been time to enter in schools for that office; Mr L never speaks of these matters, He respects and love G. but she is very bitter against them. So According the notions of M. G. about Sunday. L. at first told them to his sons, and these, though they hate G. say there is no Sabath, so we may do what we please on Sunday, and the Eldest will not go to church; but plays, drinks, hunts, etc

Now I must say farewell, with love to all.

 Yours aff
 J Gundert

Thusday <30 Sept>* I hope I shall hear from you to day or tomorrow 1 Ot. for my birthday

