Mrs Gundert, Kotagherry, pd

 Tellich. 24 Nov 47
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Two days ago I received yours of the 17th. Many thanks for it. May the Lord restore you soon in body and soul. I fear you do not take care enough of yourself: I trust however you will see that in this your time care for your health is your first work. - I am glad you are writing to me of your heart. Do not seek to open yourself to others except you are called upon by God, either because you have offended them, or because you feel they will not despise but comfort you, or because you do not care so much for yourself but are pressed to do it that perhaps you may be made a blessing to them. Of course we cannot press an exhortation on all: tho' they be dear brethren they are brought up in another atmosphere and do not soon feel the want of something which after all might be the greatest blessing to them. But what do you mean with others not having the same corrupt heart. I for one find no wickedness in that what you relate of yourself which is not also in me, and I have several beside those. Be sure we are not in the right until each one think himself lower than the other. Yea our diseases are truly deeply rooted and have grown to an immense height, full of fruits to death. If we do not know them Christ is little to us. But if we know them He is exalted as our physician and medecine. I have felt it anew how precious He is to the bruised and broken hearted; how blessed it is to stand and see His salvation, to see one's own work crumble to the dust, whilst He works something new. Oh how we have so quietly deceived ourselves with many of our people, hoping the best of them without having passed through any pains or death on account of their souls. May God in His mercy lead us by His Spirit to do a new work and yield ourselves to Him for any new ways of His. - Francis is better than Hannah, but not much. He avoids me plainly, and Joseph was also for a time more open than he is now, insensibly led away by her as I suppose. Now as we have the Lord's supper next Sunday, I shall have new opportunity with him, perhaps with her too. But the Lord must touch them, else I shall make little impression on her. - Chinnappen in Cal. after a half repentance is as Fritz fears going to the Devil - Johann is not much touched: but on the whole willing, and somewhat troubled that he has not got more. - Thomas will be married to a sister in law of Timothy the Anjerc. Catechist He is most zealous in preaching. - You ask Mrs I's pardon for the fault with the ribbons. May I ask, if you would do her a kindness. I believe you received some clothes for the girls in your box, which Mrs I. I think did not see. But as there is great delay in the coming of the Hoobly clothes, you might do her a great service by allowing her to give them on Christmass to the girls. Miss Kegel who unpacked the box will do herein whatever you order. I have not yet spoken to her about that fault and should be glad to unite some act of real kindness with it, which it lies in your power to grant. - Why do you care about our children? They are under the care of the Auxiliary Committee of Stuttg. composed of Haering, Hoffaker and other close friends. You will have heard that Mglg asks for his dismissal, in case a greater sum be not granted. I think him wrong in judgment, but am sure the effect must be rather beneficial to the Committee. They have acted somewhat rashly in regulating the money affairs in so sudden a manner. - When I find a cheap horse I shall of course buy it, but some patience will be required in the mean time. This time my Anjerc. walk did me a great deal of good. Irion is likewise without horse. Is it true that Br Mörike is also to go home? I fear that change will help him but little. Let us pray for one another and trust the Lord for all!  Yours
 HGdt

Frederick is in excellent spirits, very fond of my room.

