Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry

 Katairy 22 july <47>*
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa!

Thanks for your letter of the 9th <Friday>* You speak of coming on the hills after the monsoon; however delightful and joyful is to me the idea of returnig to Tellicherry. I do not know if it would be wise of me to return before the end of this year at least. for though I now feel better than I did some weeks ago. the pain and weakness of my stomak is but going and coming and for about two monthes. the anguish and distress of my mind was as bad as before leaving India. I was not at all so at Tellicherry after my confinement. Beside I had for many weeks pain in every parts of my body, I do not know if it was rhumatism or weakness now they are nearly gone. However til that time I hope the Lord may show what I should do. Where I should like to be there is no question; but where it is better to be. 
Mr Moerike is very much the same, trys medecines after medecines. He has also tried essent Dulcis. You remember I hope my wish about it. 
Have you found your bathing drosors in my almira wraped up with a cloth of mine. I would have written to Miss and Isabella; but these days are just bad ones. the weater is so unsettled; that every one complaineth the wife of Satianadan is also ill. The writer a Bramin who had come from Mangalore to assist Weigle died the other day. Poor W is often cast down with the sicknesses about him.

The other day many home letters came ... the W and Buhler, perhaps you also have had some; but the rain makes the postate very slow.

My love to all, a kiss to the dear baby.

 Yours aff
 J Gundert

I just receive yours written at Anjercandy <v 17 Juli>*. You are a happy man. Yea happy to believe and trust; Yet I also hope that some better days are kept for me. You are often at Chumbala, perhaps we may settle once there among those dear people, how is Christina now?

"Maigre and nervous look," still to be seen Yea it is very long with me you have to bear; but it is not with out the Lord's will.

____________s child 3* month is such a dear fellow, he laughs always, the poor mother has no milk these days, but the baby looks at his Canji very graciously and drinks with out troubling his mother, he nearly sits. 
