Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tell. 29 <30>* May 47
 <Samst.>*
My dear wife

Today at last have I been able to get off a Cooly with the things and only wish he may arrive safely - I am sorry to say I lost your last note and so did no more know all about the business I had to perform - at the same time I had none to help, for dear Mary K was ill - so I put together what I found, your gum shoes, 9 pairs of woollen stockgs and socks (so that you may choose what is right) and the piece of woollen thread I found in the stocking box with the shawl I had in Europe; I do not know if that was all. - The Monsoon came quietly after some preceding rains and was here last Monday. It rained a good deal and gave Mr Irion some rheumatism and to Miss Kegel an attack of I do not yet know what: perhaps also a covered rheumatism, from which she suffered much, but is now better after one or 2 days of lying. Frederick is well, God be praised and gives not much annoyance. - The Cooly has received one Rupee, tell this to Mr Weigle. I forgot to write it in the Coolys paper. What he wishes you to day* for a cure's sake you ought to do - the tart. ointment he recommends is very useful and I like it much better than China for you. The spurs have not arrived I am sorry to say - written papers I did not like to send in the rain. On Friday <28 May>* afternoon Nathanael married Arabella, and Baker Susanna (a second time) we have prayed that it may go well with them and ought therefore humbly to hope and be sure that the Lord will do accordingly. Vedamuttu has left a bad impression in Calicut - he is emptied of every substance talks what you like - Thank W. for his letter, to write now I have no time but hope to do it soon. We have now every morning German prayer and a German meeting on Thursday afternoon. With God's blessing this will not remain fruitless. I have been obliged to be the whole week at home. My feet were not yet quite healed from the day when I walked down the Ghats: and the rains did not appear to suit me better than the hot season, so I had to give up bathing, till the plastres have done their work, and am hot enough in consequence. But this is now it seems nearly over.

You see how much I have written and to what details I have condescended. Try to write to me also about your visible part fully and plainly. One day we shall laugh at these stories of pain, complaint and physicking, when we receive spiritual bodies and the old things shall have passed altogether. 
Greet the brethren
 In love
 Your H Gundert

