Mrs Gundert, care of Mrs Hodges, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich. 12 Oct 47
 <tuesday>*
My dear wife

I had today your letter about the arrowroot which I ordered immediately and shall let you know the result. Frederick is exceedingly happy healthy and growing just in these days when I had to neglect him nearly altogether. He had now the first tooth without trouble. Thanks for all the news and here I can repay them with a nice letter of Jette.

The Lord has continued his gracious work; Thursday <(7)>* and Friday <(8)>* they were beleaguering our doors, to speak, confess and have us to pray with them. Oh what a mass of sins and corruptions came there to the light! Hagar the stout old girl is a wonder of grace: she knows little but was disconsolate could neither sleep nor eat till she had found grace. Isabella confessed wants of truth and faithfulness in Bellary, and I had to write to Strange her confessions. Missy has been already corrupted by a servant in her father's house. She has now opened her heart and I praise the Lord on her account. Susanne and Arabella have been moved to confess. Nathanael could not sleep, awakened me with his despairing cry ________ in the morning and I had to hear him in the shirt. Joseph has been anew awakened and old sins came out, chiefly cheating when coming from Bombay. Mattu is reduced to nothing now, after he had been so vain. Mark has found grace. Hassan and other boys are ... believe in the way of life. He confessed most brokenhearted. But some of the old ones are not easily conquered Johann and Aaron and Cornelius and Thaddai and especially Francis keep either aloof or simulate as if they had also experienced something and yet nothing will come out nor can they find rest and peace. Saturday <(9)>* and Sunday <(10)>* in Anjercandy. The Lord was with me, though it was begun there in great weakness. I had to walk there and back, one of our horses died suddenly. On Friday, mine was lamed no body knows how, Frederick M's is as mad, now lying down now jumping off the road. Have some devils gone out from the men into the beasts? Well, no loss. - In Anj. I preached 3 times to the people and one to the Masters. Little visible impression with them beyond wonder. Amongst the people Gnanamuttu confessed first before the whole congregation - horrible sins! It went on when I left, after the Lord had I believe given new grace to Cat Timothy and his wife.

Boys and girls here are much changed. So much more cheerfulness and thoughtfulness at the same time. The fear of the Saheb as it were gone, we are no more taskmasters. The preaching is now so easy, they take the words from the lips. Uranie also has wept much before and confessed twice, lamenting that she again fell once asleep. Your 2 Elisas of 1839 and 40 are now manifested both to have been hypocrites. Ananden has been the worst of all - an adulterer, yea murderer (of unborn children) and enchanter! He confesses, but seems still not ready to come to the foot of the cross. - On Monday <11 Oct>* we 4 brethren humbled ourselves again before the Lord and spoke out wherein we had sinned against one another. It was hard for the flesh but the Lord be praised: He had the whole glory of it. Oh how Satan has still power over those that are the Lords and serve Him, to bewitch them and estrange them by trifles from oneanother. His be all the praise and the profits equally divided amongst us, you also included. With love to you and the brotherhood

 Yours in Christ
 H Gundert

