Revd H. Gundert, Tellicherry. pp.

 Katairy <16>* August <47>*
 <Monday>*

Dear papa

Thanks for your last; Praise to God who has so dirrected all things at Tellichery so that it is going on better. The letter of Theodor I shall be glad to see; be assured that I keep them all well, Saturday 14the W<eigle>* and B<ühler>* dined at Mr Street with Mr N Groves they were pleased with him. Tusday <17>* the whole house is ivited to meet him at Mr Casamajor, Wednesday <18>* he is to breakfast here, My last letter to you has been kept here three days, no one having gone at Otacamund. I hope you will not take such troble as to come up after the rains: Please God I shall be able to return with you to spend Christmas at Tellichery. So you could come in november and be here sometimes. I am glad to hear that Frederich sleeps better, it is a great gain for his health, to quiet his nerves. 
Have you any news from England about Miss? The 16th here people have the home letters, very good news about the production of the earth, harvest already begun, plentiousness every where, may God be praised for all these and may the heart of those who have sufferd from hunger be truly turned to the Giver of so many mercies.

Dear papa you will be glad to hear that truly the Lord has done me good. I begin to fell stronger, happy, Great deal better in my mind, more rest at night, some appetite. Praise to God, may he truly render profitable for my soul and to his Glory the time of teaching which I have had. My nerves must have been in a dreadful state; for when I have some traces of that which has past I see out of what I have been taken, and how much careful I have yet to be.

Well Mr Groves has come very friendly in deed; much stouter than formerly, He said that I look better than sewen years ago. All the brethren here were much pleased with him. He said that for any thing he would <not?>* again began a work as he has done heather to regarding mission; A Missionary must be supported and he can not be imploye<d>* to some other work. He considers nearly as lost these ten last year, having been so much occupied with plantations etc. He has lost 15 thousands Rps with this place and if he is oblige<d>* to give up Chittor He shall loos<e>* 50 000. Nothing is settled about his going home, as just now he has some what to do with governement so he will have great taxes on his plantations and feelds for which he has spent much and had heather to but very little profit; for these reason he is obliged to quit the hills in a few days being cald to Chittoor. Hany is there who takes care of every things, Mr F*G has arrived at home and is very happy with her family. He does not agree at all with the Plimouth bretheren, neither with any party because each of them by their narrow vews put bounds born" to the love which ought to unite all the Christians. The wife of F. is a sister of Mrs Bucher and of a Mrs Harris! You shall probably see F. at Tellicherry for he is going to Cannanore in a few weeks to recieve Machines or macanical instruments from England which are to be landed there, Henry and Frack are to be at Mysoor. Mr N has written you tow letters to which you have not unsewred. I assured him that you had nothing from him else you would have written surely. Well the letter he wrote you must have been neglected by his agent of London who should have send it to Bale He sends you his love and wish to hear from you.

He told me that he could truly sypatise with me in my melancoly for he is so himself since some time, very often cast down, chiefly the morning when awaking, he cannot account for it for his health is very Good, but it will also be, saith he, to the glory of God. he asked if I had seen the Lascelles, he would never have made public the matter if the L. had not wished for it so Though he is against the Plimoothiens, he seems to have the same want of ruling and to be independant. he said that truly one had been sent out to rebuke him or excomunicate him from the PB. these said he Groves will but seek all the evil of the church, but he seek the good which can be found in every community and will be in union with all.

Mr Buhler is the least pleased with him, his vews of the church are not correct, and one can not put a word betwen his own says B. I am sorry not to be able to discribe you better Mr G but on the all he is the same. Thank for the letters of Theodore and Mr St just recived.

 Yours aff
 J Gundert

