 Kotagherry 13 D<ec 47.>*
 <Monday>*

The 12th I recieved your lecture

Dear papa.

By this time you have a note which shows you my repentance; not so much for desobedience as for fear that I shall be let without news the same length of time; As I thought you were never crossed or troubled in your thoughts about me, I did not think you would percieve my letter came later than usal. Now to tell you the truth why I did not write, here it is. I had a letter ready when your remontrance about my answer to the letter of Misi came then I was offended that you had mistaken my letter to her alltogether. here is her letter to me see if it deserved some things else then what I wrote to her As I felt then bitterness I thought it better not to write at all, not to send what was written already. I thought you would have read my letter to Brother Irion and his wife, if you do not like to do it I certainly wish you to aske my pardon for the ribbons. Do not think that I have for a moment repented to have written you that letter no. I am even ready to tell you more: for God has been merciful to me, I was indeed on the very point of despairing altogether and blaspheming God for his dealings towards me, but as he is faithful and free without repentance in his gifts, he has helped me, and delivred me from the snare where I was almost caught. Yes unbelief and pride have nearly overpowered me. But praise to him who is merciful and faithful in his unmeasurable love. I now know that he has not only saved me; but will till the very end keep me through the same grace with which he has purchased me for everlasting. And through this same grace he will grant me to praise him not only to have saved me, but also for what ever dispensation he may see fit to send me.

My mentioning again the illness of F is that I heard of it more through Mrs Gr's than by your letters and as she had just related much of it to me I thought I may express my thanks to Marie; Yet you are right in reminding me to praise for the present and hope for the future. Begin to do here what we shall do for everlasting is surely a sweet song, praises praises, to him who is love and has redeemed us through his precious blood: Do help me by prayers to God that I may go forth believing and praising him for his will towards me.

Je crois que Weigle ‚cris ce mois ci … Bale dans les mˆmes termes que Mr Mog Lui et Soeur Greiner sont fort d‚plus avec le Comit‚, chere Pauline ne dit pas grand chose, moi je ne dis rien.

The report about my health is a mistake, it comes perhaps from my refusing to visit people; which I generally do, giving my health for excuse; for thanks to God I am altogether better, my stomach is yet weak; but this state may dure for years

Here is a note for Mrs Ostertag Please to inclose it in yours. Yesterday came the Steem letters. I hope you have some from Bale! Have you any news about Miss where she is to stay? Have you recieved the little parcel I sent by Greiner? I have still some what for Marie, but I dont know if it will reach for Christmas. Give her my love and kisses to the dear baby. How is it at Cannanore and with you all?

My love to all
 Yours JGt

