Revd H Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing.

 Katary the 16th Decemb. <Septbr 47>*
 <Donn.>*
Dear papa.

Though I should like to leave aside the theme which has filled up the first lines of our last letters, I will but say a word, refering your last. Much, or less time, is of very little consequence to an untalented creature. 
Friday <(10.)>* we had the visite of Mr et Mrs Van Someren and Mrs Hodges, they left on Saturday <(11.)>*. He sends you his love; He appears to be very much the same; As many others who have not yet experienced enough of the latent wickedness of the human heart as to be able to bear the infirmties of their brethren without pronouncing harsh judgement. Much of the time spent "en passant en revue" people known to us. It is truly sad that the faults and mistakes of our brethren can take up so much of our time in censuring, and criticising, and so very little given to prayers for them; Yet we know all; that this would be the best remedy to help those with whom we find faults, and keep ourselves in love and charity. Slandering is a sin too little observed and faught against among Christians. The devil has a fine play with it; for not only we lose our time; but we offence against God and his children, instead of praing and fulfilling the exhortation of Paul. Above all things have fervent love among yourselves; for charity shall cover the multitude of sins Mr Van S. came up to fetch one of his daughter who has spent some time with Mrs Hodges. Mr Schafter is at Madras being not well. He had lately good news from his son Paul, who formerly would hear nothing about Mission would learn any trade, only not to be a Missionary. Now his heart has been touched by the Spirit of God, and he will be thankful to be employed in the vineyard of the Lord. 
I am thinking to go at Out. the next week; as I have long promised to Mrs L. W. and Hodges. The western monsoon is just finished; the eastern is to begin in the middle of October. I should not like to be there during that time nor after; for it is then very cold. Here and at Kotagharry we have no Madras Monsoon. I begin to like this place very well, and to see beauties; which had heather to no charms for me.

I am writing a long letter to my friends of Rolle and Vevey. At Out. I shall try the advice of Mrs Mangert.

Mrs Gorden begged once a Mr Gosner to send her a young man who could take care of her school after her death. So a young man with his wife was sent from some part of Germany or Suiss. He landed at Madras without a rupee in his poket. Mrs Gorden surprised that the man did not know English or knew but very little, dispatched back the poor man with his wife who was near her confinement. Not knowing what to do, He at last resolved to go to Bengal where he has a brother, who is not in a fair situation himself. Is it not too bad to deal in such a way?

Tell me what have been the result of your letter to Can. If that hold of satan which is evident to many a people, could be known and felt there by dear H. and his people they might escape a braking out of evil which other wise may be very hurtful.

I wish you could see the roses we have in our garden, and what quantity and how beautiful!

Nianamah sends you Salams and wishs to see you!

My love to all Kisses to babe

Mr Groves was very much greeved at tow letters of Hebich to Mr West. He treats him truly very hard. Surely Mr W. is a christian of whom the Lord takes care. Alas if our God was no more merciful than some of his servants; what would become the greatest part of us!

God be praised for the happy delivrance of Mrs M.

