Mrs H Gundert, care of Rev G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 9 Sept 47
 <Donn>*
My dear wife

In what a fidgetly state you must have <been>* when you addressed to me your last letter. Surely you might have counted the children's letter with my notes as one from me as it sufficed at least to show to you that all is right. For I can assure you I am not lazy and have little time for letters: and may just now be yet more occupied, as we have to change the house in Vadagara to another place on account of Vedam's stupidity in building on disputed ground. What you say of Chomb is not forgotten but it requires mature consideration, for you fancy things to be much easier done than is really the case. If you are there, how many things you will miss. You have not even seen the building and know not how much needs to be done to make it inhabitable for a weak woman, and then the girls etc make godown's and servants' buildings necessary, all which is not there to be found; but suppose even all ready provisions are to be procured from Mahe and partly from Tellicherry: not to speak of the distance from Doctor and friends. I say this only to make you consider it from both sides lest you think too hastily only of the nice side of the question. To me it is all the same, I can go without a moment's thought wherever duty calls me. May the Lord show us our way.

I recived a letter from Hoffm wherein he says that on account of public opinion bring so much in favour of China, their Indian Mission will suffer some curtailment in the mode of expenditure 5000 œ being the limit to which they can go annually for us here, including our donations. This will make some stir when it is once officially announced but I believe something of the kind is truly necessary.

Frederik is now drinking much more Canji than formerly but I believe 3-4 times is the general course. He likes to drink often, but still sleeps little. In spite of that he is getting stout and interested in all he sees. If one does not bring him as near to a fire or other thing he admires, he grumbles like Christianely when she had pressing wants of another kind. When I sing he attempts to sing too and is indeed a quick and lovely child. - Miss K. is kind to him beyond measure, I believe really over anxious lest any thing like a charge be levelled against her. When you once will know her closely you will find her considerably more suspicious than you thought, the consequence I believe of her having experienced so little love in her youth. In learning she makes but slow progress, owing chiefly to her activity in other things. - That Mrs C Müllr has the 7 Sept morning be confined of a healthy daughter you will have learned beforehand. We heard of it only after all was over. She is doing very well, and both are of course very happy. Praised be the Lord who makes us to pass through one anxiety after the other and assures us that there remains nothing for us to be feared.

In love
 Yours affly
 H Gundert

Salute the brethren and Mrs W.

