Revd. H Gundert, Tellicherry. bearing.

 Kotaghery. 1 N<ovb 47>*
 <Monday>*
Dear papa.

Though I wrote to you a short time ago, I will answer yours just recieved. I am sorry to have greeved you, when I said you do not pity me, I had no thoughts whatever about love or tenderness; regarding this I have nothing to complain, but to be thankful. I only felt that you did not understand me and seem to find easy to believe and trust in God; which I could not; your remarks about unbelief and selfrightiousness; I acknowledge to be perfectly right; to come out of it appears to you a small thing. It may be so for one who has more faith than I. I never since 22 yars which the Lord first gave me assurance of forgiveness, felt such distrust, unbelief, hardness, and revolt against the ways of God; that the fault is in me, of course; It is not about my salvation I have been so much troubled; but offended and rebellious at the ways of God toward me, I could not believe that there was any love in him for me in leading me in such way of sickness, and humiliation, separation, It has been to such point that I have understood how a man can harden himself and blasphem God. Instad of praising God for what had been done at Telichery I felt a develish envy and jolousy, which increased my misery. however the blessed little work of Bunian Hearts ease has helped me good deal, I thank God to have made it profitable to me. 
Now I beg you will forgive me if I have offended you: And be assured that I ment nothing but that you could not understand me; I was like a man in a pit of clay or mud till the breast without a bit of strength left in his limbs or members; to whom one would say come out, make a stap, how when you are as bound with double chaines Well now I pray God that I may not fall again in such temptation, and I hope not to forget to say "lead me not into temptation, but delivre me from evil" Yet I hope I have not been so low for no purpose either for meself and others.

I like Kotagherry very well, and I am sure it will be better for me to be here, I ...e the three girls in my room; as* we have but little room, expecting ... Greiners. We live in Mont Plaisant till our house be repaired; but it may be yet long for the Monsoon has just began it is as hard as in the low country, Winds and rains, and very cold.

You see that I am not quite without work, with the Children, I have their dictation, reading the Bible and nedle work.

The boxes of Buhler and Moerike are also still in Bombay at least the ship which brought them has arrived there before the monsoon. You see our ink is very bad.

Moerike is also here in order to be attended by the Dr or the Apothicary Holdwell who is a clever and very kind man. He has told but in secret to Mrs W. that it is probable that the lungs of M. are affected; 
Kisses to the babies - Thanks to dear Irion to think of me. Love to all. 
 Yours affectly
 J Gundert

P.S. Please to address your letters at Kotagherry.

