 28 july <47>*
 <Wednesday>*

Dear papa.

What delightful news about our dear children. Truly how much the Lord has done for us regarding them. Much more than I could ever have thought. Now am I not a fool to think so much about my body? Has he not made me to go through when I thought it impossible and can he not yet do the same and more. Oh how is it that I doubt always and will be made very well before I can trust. faith must go without seeing. Oh may I soon go with the strength which is given me without looking for how long it will stand. 
To day we expect Mr Schmid with his daughter, for a visit. Be not offended at my story to marie it is her own perhaps it may do her good. She wants a ferm hand regarding obediance, this little story of her has been written by Herman, but they do not know it

No Mr Groves as yet; the John have gone down. Mr W is to leave this about the end of the next month to go to Mysoor where he shall remain a whole month Mogling is to be there too for a Comity about the translation of canarise Bible.

Dear papa do you pray truly for me? that more faith and confidence be given me, it is chiefly what I want for some time I am tempted to think God does not hear me nor love me because of my want of uprightness and truth. Yet I must hope but it is a continuel fighting. I have been pleased with the visit of Dr Schmid he sends you his kind regards. He said he knew saveral people who were many monthes on the hills before they felt any benifit the contrary they felt much depressed and cust down, till they were strenghtened and then got quite well. I hope it will be se same with me. So patience. 
 Yours aff
 J Gundert

