Mrs Gundert, to the care of Mrs Lascelles, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich. 1 Oct 47
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Many thanks for your last. It was a joy to me to see you quite on the right point as far as the question of Society and money is concerned. I know and feel that I have no right, nor - as far as the Spirit goes - desire for selfmade happiness or ease on earth: and believe that to stretch oneself according to the couvert (as we say in German) will not hinder the spiritual work committed to us though such may appear to be the case. I do not know if this finds you at Mrs Lascelles if so give my Selams and thanks for your kind reception. But I must say I tremble when I th... of your or my stay there, and pray that Satan may in no way profit of it for his purposes, rather that God may use it for his ends. You will not I am sure promise any thing for me. I shall certainly not write to Mr Groves about Kirubei. Is it not strange that the children are just now remembered, but there was no care for them these 5-6 years: I wrote the last letter to L. and they broke off the correspondence - You may be sure when you are gone Arthur will soon be forgotten again. Only not ask such friends to help us - they prove at last a mere burden because they do not pull in the same yoke with us. - May grace and peace be with you abundantly wherever you are. Fred. selams to you. - Have you never written to Mrs Müller Mook about her baby Miss Kegel has been charged to spend only 70 Rs per year! Did you think that was enough? You ought to think of a useful present to her. 
 In love Yours affly
 H. Gundert

Have you written any thing about our expenses here? and where is it, as in the end of this month I have to make the account, I should like to know about it. - Hebich has just some interesting conversions among the black people. - With Calicut the arrangements have turned out so, that now Fritz's boys enter our Seminary.

