Revd. H Gundert. Tellicherry. pd.

 Kotagherry, 17 Novbr1 47
 <Mittw.>*
Dear papa.

Thanks for yours of the 11th. I scarcely know if you ever recieve mine! I would have written to Bale; but the tow last days I might have done it with the hope it would yet reach you at time; I was not able; for sunday <14>* and monday <15>* I was obliged to keep my bed; it seems I took cold while I was at Ot., it hang on me for some weeks, and at last came on sunday with severe nervous rhumatic crampes, now I am thankful that it is over. The Greines came on thurday <11 Oct>* evening as we were already in bed. She is better than we expected to find her, her children have been very troublesome; having an eaching irruption all over the body. He left us yesterday, and went with W. to Katary; from whence he intents to go to Calicut, likely Buhler will accompany him. Greiner said not to meself, (for I did not ask any thing fearing to feel irritated, in case of a bad answer). The business at Telli. is not as yet much to speak of; but there is hope that it may prove so afterward. At leat the brethrenen have now a thread in their hand which may stretch far, because they know the state of their people. It has been said too, that it was very right for the brethren at T. to confesse to one an other because they were not write <right>* to gether before. Such speach is to be pitied for surely if eyes were opened one could see that in all stations it is the same evil. only it is now and then a little mended; but such mending will never bring a real cure. Still I hope that some who now betrey their fillings, or who say "stop: to the voice which would have this act of faith and obedience brought forth; shall come later to it. May the Lord leave them no rest till they obey.

The three first months I was here I felt a great desire to open my heart to P. W. for I then had very little hope to live any longer; I did it as far as I could; but finding no reciprocal feeling it soon was at en end. If I could write German I would write P Irion. But as the Lord has given you grƒce to confess yourselves at T. Surely you have not come to it without the same objections which are common I suppose to all except they have not perhaps the same shameful wicked heart. The words of James. 5.16 press me; but I say what there is no one so bad as meself, they cannot understand me; they shall only be offended etc. Still as you pray for me at Teli, it seems to me that I am not apright in not letting you to know my sins which beset me, and for which or according to which prayers ought to be directed; for if I obey the command, I must also expect the blessing promised in the same verse. I cannot in writing tell all what has passed before my conversion, and also those sins do not trouble me; as the very black ones which have beset me and do it yet since I am in India. As long as I was at Rolle I use to open myself to Dear Mr Rochat; My coming to India was very much mixed with the desire to have a name among the Christians, Then in my dayly work I very often did things to be seen and observed by Christians, I often punished the children by passion and self mouvement and will. I often felt envy and jealousy when hearing of the conversion of some because it was not done in our Mission and chiefly by You or I. this horrid, develish envy is so strong in me; that I often dispised others and felt hatered to them when things were prosperous for them, I some times am glad to know that others are afflicted and in sufferings, I would make the faults of others great and to be seen, in order to be thought better than them. I some times feel iritation against you; knowing that I am anworthy of love and regards instead of humbling meself and acknowledgeing that I am inded a stupid creature I am proud and hate those who may be witness of my stupidity. Once after the birth of Frederic who is in heaven ...1 At Bale as Mrs Ostertag gave me the parcel of things for Mrs Irion. I took out a third or half of the narrow ribons; for I thought she would give me none. When I felt it was wrong I ment to cure the all by adding some of mine larger ones when her parcel come; but as I was not there I cannot mend it; and it is better she knows it. I felt hatered against her, when I heard that the nurse was no more fed in our house; for I thought she was the cause of it. I have felt envy and iritation at Mrs Muller because she learns the language so quickly.

Now I am nearly sure that you know nothing of such kind of wikedness, yet I hope you will the more pray for me that I may truly be cured from them. 
Mr Greiner said nothing about Calicut; his three children begins already to get red cheeks, they told me that our dear Frederic has been so very very ill.

I am very sorry to hear about poor Hannah; may the Lord grant her repentance while it is still time, her state is surely a sad one, is not Francis some thing like her? How is the old Mookwir Joanan?

The steam letters have arrived today here. I thank dear Pauline Irion for her kind letter. I was glad to have such good news from you and chiefly of our dear baby: I gave to Mr Greiner a small parcel containing a few things you will see on the address when they are to be given, keep them in your Almira. I am sorry to hear that you go about so much walking; have you but an horse at Telli.? Do you not remember that you suffered formerly of the liver and why do you expose yourselves to the son?

The papers of the Comity have just arrived, tell me how it is to be with our children? Do they still pay at home for them?

though I wish to spare as much as possible I do not like to know your are with out a horse, I rather spare on other things than that with is nececessary for your going about

You know that the Lehners are going home immidiatly for he is very ill of the liver complaint.

Now give my love to all

 Yours afftly
 J Gundert

