Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Outacamund 22 Otober 47.
 <Friday>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for your two last. Fine news about Tellicherry; happy the people who have had a part in the blessing of the Spirit. Praise to God also for the good news about our dear children.

Mrs. Lascelles begs yet, that you would be so kind as to send her a bottle of Cinnamon Oil; Do they make any at Anjercandi? Or perhaps it is to be got in the shop at Cannanore. If my box has not come I do not mind any things of mine to be sent: if you could but send the shoes of Moerike, and this Oil of Mrs. L. I wish you would write to Mogling about the box. 
Mr West has been detained here and shall be till Jenuar, The very day he intended to go he fell ill, so he has got a certificate till the nex year, he is now pretty well again.

It has been reported here, by people who have been with the Fritz at Callic. that Missionaries live gread deal too well, that they do not spare any thing, live as well as any body else. So why should these* have any petition made for them? You would do well perhaps to write this to Fritz. And when you have visitors do not treat them well at all. It is a common report that all the Missionaries live too well. So Frederic has got a tooth and nearly with out trouble. That he is still nerves is no wonder to me, try only to leave him as queite as possible. - Does he sleep pretty well? 
I have the feeling that the grace which has appeared among you will be followed with signs for the heathens as at Mootlingen. Though you do not pity me I forgive you and say you are happy not to have been tried as I am, and have been for a long time.
The Weigles are going to Kotagherry; I dont know as yet where1 I shall go Addres always your letters to Hodges they shall be right.

The stronger I get the more "heimweh". Perhaps I may be permitted to go down in Februar.

If you ever meet with some light wine please to buy some that you shall keep by you till I come - I can not dring strong one niether beer. May the Lord keep in humility all those who have been blessed, and chiefly you the brethren together.

My love to all, thanks to Mrs Muller Mook for her letter.
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert

Je viens de recevoir un petit billet de Pauline W. Elle na pas encore pu aller … Kot. a cause des pluies; Maintenant Weigle veut rester ici jusquace que les Greiners viennent. Ainsi puis qu'il reste … Katary je n'irai pas l…, mais jirai avec les enfans a Kotagh pour rejoindre Pauline. Si Weigle n'‚tait pas rest‚ … Katary je serais all‚e vers Buhler; Mais je n'aime pas me mettr de menage avec Weigle, il est un singulier homme nous n'allons pas bien ensemble Du reste il ne va bien avec personne (entre nous soit il dit) La vie de visite continuel ici, et de nouveaux ouvrages … montrer … plusieurs ne me va pas du tout

Toutes les fois que mes nerfs sont d‚traques, les mˆmes angoisses et d‚tresses se retrouvent comme autrefois. Je suis donc aise de laisser cette phase ou il est impossible de jouir de repos

