Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tell. 31 Aug 47
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Your last letter deserves honourable mention In this you have really made an endeavour to write well. You must not compare my letters with yours. For to be sure I have not half the time that you have. To what questions that remained unanswered do you allude? I really know none except the Essent. dulc. and this was so often repeated that I wanted to see if you will not believe me at last without an answer that I shall take care of executing your wish. - I write today also to Groves not much for I have no time Friedr M is going to Calicut and I accompany him to Chomb and Vadag. - Last week Thomas was taken up by the Cutwal because his preaching disturbs the Mapl. he was then carried before Mr Chatfield, before whom he said that what he did he did by the command of Christ, and when threatened no more to preach called his attention to his the Magistrates' having also a Lord on high. Chatf. has written to me about the preaching and will not have it in public places, he afterwards limited the prohibition to Bazars and places near the Mosques I deed not yield the point in my answer, but hinted how easily he credits what the Cutw. and Ameen (both Mopl.) say about their caste being molested by the Catechists and asked for similar protection as that which Mr Crozier afforded. As he leads a bad life he of course hates the truth. - Afterwards Thomas went to Cannanore to hear Hebich preach. But the Catechists there including the 2 former soldiers treated him shabbily saying he has a Devil and knows not the purna niti. I have been induced there by to write to Timothy and ask him to retract Here is a dangerous point of dear Hebich, treating his people. They get an idea as if they are the only orthodox Christians, assume their masters airs without his Spirit. - On Monday <30>* Fred Muller went with me to Mahe Chomb and Vadag in order to pay a visit at Calicut. I baptized Silas' boy in Chombal and Paul's aunt will also soon be ready for the reception in the Church.

A young man in Vadagara thinks of becoming a Christian and promised to come today (Thursd) <2 Sept>* to Tellich. As he has not arrived I fear his relations who watch him closely have retained him. - I have written to Groves and sent the 2 letters, which I had thought you had taken with you. I hear Mrs Huber is much better than she was for a long time. - Here a letter from Mrs Mengert Give her my love I knew Miss Kind's mother, she was a close friend of my mother. But these are fine news about the Scotch Miss[ionar]y Lady! God preserve us from such. Dont tell that I read it! - Frederick is going on nicely, eats any Canji even some rice - drinks milk and water, and becomes strong and playful. He is always happy when I come back. Miss K. will be nearly sorry when you return and she is to loose the object of her cares and night watches: for when he wants something she does it nearly all herself. - I hope you are following Mrs Mengert's advice if it be only to have neglected nothing that may tend to your recovery!

 With love from all
 Yours HG.
