Mrs Gundert, care of CW West, Esqr, Ootacamund, pd

 Wednesd. 6 Oct 1847
My dear wife

What will you say when upon your long letter you receive such a small bit? Happily the cause is the best you can imagine. Today, Wednesday, Hebich came over to tell of the mercies of God commenced in his native Church the last 14 days, part of which I had witnessed. He wished to confess his sins to us from his youth, we did the same in prayer the whole morning. After dinner he addressed our people whom we assembled and told how the movement had begun with them in Cann. Confession of sins - truth - then broken spirit - fear of God's word and dwelling of God with such. Deep impression. He rode back. After evening prayer was half over Mark fell to the ground with loud crying and commenced to roll himself and pray in a most frantic manner: the commotion was general, all crying, weeping, sighing, praying aloud - music in my ears though I nearly trembled. After some time I could master myself enough to silence Mark and invite him for conversation afterwards in my room. But then I called upon Mattu the great sinner who never confessed, to acknowledge his sins before the Church. When he prayed the commotion began again to be general, and I thought it best to take girls and women with me to the house leaving the others to be guided by Br Irion and F. M. The girls allready more or less to confess their sins. I cannot tell much in particular now it is beyond midnight. After all I had Milca and Mark who at last received grace to confess quietly. He will keep noth... <nothing>* back. All came out what he just remembered. He will pray to remember more. After I had by prayer at last quieted him, I felt the Devil was out. We 3 brethren concluded at last the day with prayer. You see this is a beginning not many hours old, but to you I can tell it. Pray along, you are also included in the common cry: the Lord will thereby heal you in spirit soul and body. Believe Him. His grace is with us. We tremble, and are like babes. But for nothing he does not commence thus. To me the first day of the kind! Pray that it spread, that the dead bones live that Jesus crucified be glorified in us and receive a little hire for all his labour over our souls. 
With love to brethren and sisters
 Yours affly
 H Gundert

