Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Pentecost 47
 <23 Mai>*
My dear wife

Thanks for your letter of 18 May. written at the fulls (which I suppose to mean falls, except you mean that the falls were just through rain filled to such a degree as henceforth to deserve the name of fulls). - It is done well that you wrote to Mrs Lehner. We all pity her much. - I hope you will soon give me a good account of your health, of case of mind and happiness. Frederick is better than I ever saw him and laughs much, whereas Christian cries often, for his teath. - You will remember me also to Casamajor when you see him: I hope and if you have seen Mrs Lascelles, tell me what impression her reappearance has made on you. She wrote a long letter to Brennen to console him and tell him of her religious conversations with Flora! I fear from what I now see that Br. is not very deeply impressed with the concerns of his soul but perhaps I cannot look deep enough. Harris wrote and sent you Salam. Dr Harrison's whom we supposed drowned, have written that they were for 3 days and nights in continual danger of foundering, but found at last a little bay of refuge. They hope they shall never forget it and beg that we pray for them. - If you write to me, address Rev. H Gundert plainly. Hebich was over last Monday: he sends you greetings. - Here no particular news - at least none particularly interesting - we have the Lord's supper today and work enough -

We also had plenty of rain - nor do we know what season of the year we are in, it is just as in the close of the Monsun - Thank W. for his kind note and greet all the Geschwister from
 Your HG.

