 Tellich 16 Nov 47
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Here the shoes. I hope it is what you want. - You will have heard ere this how the Comm. has changed the way of treating our money affairs. It has made no impression on me, but this that we were not worthy of the ease we enjoyed hitherto, and that the present way will also be found to bring blessings to us if only we be in a state to receive them. But I fear the change may make other impressions especially on such as are not at this time peculiarly supported by tangible experiences of God's kindness. We have now resolved to comment only on a few of the points in the Comm's letter. - You are very naiv in writing about the impression our first news produced. First you say yourself felt a certain envy and jealousy, and you call it rightly something develish. Then you turn round and say we ought not to have exhorted others to do the same, because it provokes envy. It is very easy for you to know that this will be the consequence. But it would have been difficult for us to repress the wish that all might benefit from the gift of God, feeling as we did that very little preparation was required to receive what God so graciously showered down upon us. We brethren of the various stations had become united by sins and by grace - so any thing given to some place might have been claimed by the others, as a new grace in which they should also be considered as partners. If they excuse themselves surely it is not our fault, that we have written and exhorted, but the fault may lie in this that we did not write accurately enough - for which there was no time - and that we did not exhort strongly enough - for which we were not prepared by previous close friendship. But only believe that before you well know it the Devil plays you a trick in these matters. For I have experienced this in myself repeatedly this summer. In James V you have a plain exhortation, and if there should be communion in all things, surely the knowledge of our inward state belongs not merely to myself but must be shared with the Church, of course in different degrees and measures. - Are you true before those with whom you are? Take care not to show outward peace when you have it not inside. Take care also to speak of sinfulness when you do just not feel it. Recommend yourself into the prayers of those in whom you can confide for your real wants as they appear to you at different times - by an openness without affectation. - You are asked if there is now more love etc in Tell? This is the question which the world has to ask of us: for to prove to it that we have received repentance and faith, we have no other means. But brethren ought to recognize the gift a little sooner, and not wait quietly till they see the fruit standing undeniably before them, but ought to thank for the small beginnings and pray with us for the fruits. I might tell some of the fruits: but I do not know if they will continue and remain and grow for ever. If not, what could they prove, but a momentary excitement? Why then say much. Br Mglg has since written to me a nice letter: he has recognized some of the fruits f. i. in Irions and my letters. May God continue them in us and give us perfect works!

I hope I become daily more callous to approval and not approval: and pray to have more of God's testimony in me that I do wherewith He is pleased. Then He will justify sooner or later what comes from Him. May He condemn and cast out what is from myself or any man!

Frederick is now heavier than Christian I. He thrives exceedingly well. I think the nurse's milk was bad. How he is changed since he lives on other food! Also Miss K. has prayed much for him. With her I have come to a full understanding about some things that were between us. Praised be His holy name! Greet the brethren from
 Yours affly
 H Gundert

