Mrs Gundert, care of Rev G. Weigle, Ootacamund

 Tellich. 3 July 47
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

You have given me a great deal of joy by your letter received on my return from Chombala. I hail with gladness every return of equanimity and peace of mind. What have we better than this? and how cheaply it is to be bought! God has been so merciful towards us these 11 years since we landed in India, we ought always to wonder and rejoice and leave the remainder of our days and ways with the greatest confidence to his management. 
Of course I had nothing from the Ostertags or I should have sent the letter onwards. He ought to write more regularly in my humble opinion, but if he lets you hear occasionally through the dear Weigle's it is the same. The little bit of news from Miss LaRoche about Marie has been communicated to you I believe in my last.

Frederick begins now really to be stouter and his face assumes a more manly form*. He lifts his hand as soon as I carry him out and when I hold him near the lime tree in the front of the garden he tries to catch the little fruits. He is always delighted when I take him up but laughs less with me than with Marie. He seems to consider it a much more serious business to be with me as he then must catch the sound of my airs and be prepared for divers changes in his position, now sitting on my hand with the face against the sea, now leaning on my shoulder but he has a heart ready to go through all his exercises without previous notice being given.

I heard from Mrs Cummin the other day. She asked after you and wished me to procure for her a Canarese Monshee, with whom her brother the Engeneer is to learn. Nothing new from Hebich.

He had begun a Cherunur School in Cotacal South of Vadagara, but the Nayers interrupted it by threats to the poor slaves. Conolly has now answered an application of mine and offered to do what he can to help my very reasonable request. I pray that these miserable people may not loose the benefit of Christian instruction with which they had been made acquainted through their Anjercandy relations.

F M has today gone to Anjercandy. We are all very well, except Marie who has now and then a little ailing, but is on the whole much better than she was. She loves Fred. as a mother, and he is very sensible of it. Christian is getting on very nicely, but not in walking, more in talking. 
When you see Groves, give him my love, I am sorry our correspondence is so long interrupted but do not know how to begin it again, as I fear his mind is very sore on account of his failures on the Neilgh. and in Chottoor. He must feel it deeply, how little of practical results his ideas about Miss[ionar]y operations have worked out, and I only wish, his present new plans may answer better.

Give my love to the Weigles Mörike and Bühler. The 2 inclosed letters shall be sent off one of these days.

 In Christian love
 Your H Gundert

