Mrs H. Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tell 27 Aug 47
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Grace and Peace to you! You have done well to write once a larger letter and to try to enter into closer communication. For it is really a shame if married people, married in the Lord, and already 9 years, dont know what to write to one another. Surely they need not think so much as in other letters, they may write as they otherwise were wont to converse by mouth. So Groves regards the way of his Indian Miss[ionar]y life as a failure! Poor man I pity him truly. Did you not ask after the souls gained during this time, either through schools, or Catechists? and where is Andrew? I shall soon write to him, but this week it was impossible. I have been again at Cannanore, saw Mrs Cummin who sends you friendly greetings also her mother who would absolutely hear nothing what I had to say, so I was obliged to go quickly. Mrs Walker died in the Lord, having at last the pleasure of seeing Hebich again, who had long been forbidden the house, and taking the Lord's supper from him. After that she was at rest, desired no more even to see her children, but wished to be alone with the Lord. She marked beforehand the hour when she should die and it happened accordingly.

Thomas is growing wonderfully. The other day Moplas raised a disturbance about him in the Bazar, He was taken to the Cutwal and afterwards to Mr Chatfield (who is you know an enemy) but pleaded his right to preach his Christ, as being ordered by God to do so, in preference to obeying worldly orders. Chatfield seems to have ordered to stop all preaching on the Bazar. He now has written to me, and fancies such irregular conduct will rouse the Moplas to a disturbance etc, whilst it is only his own conduct, that has shown the Cutwal and Peons that they may now do as they like with Catechists. Also Joseph has gained by Th's boldness; and I have answered Chatfield mildly enough, to see if he cannot be brought to alter his orders, and afford protection to our people as long as they do nothing but preach Christ where they are suffered to speak out. Paul's aunt in Chombala is coming to the Lord. May he open her heart and understanding! 
Milca has been very ill but is recovering. I believe her heart to be really touched by the grace of God and hope she may soon be ready for baptism. 
When Mrs Muller's confinement is to take place? I believe in October, but really do not know why I believe so, or from whom I heard it. She is occasionally unwell, but on the whole seems to be over her old complaint. I am glad to hear Mörike is getting on well! May it be the same with you. Dont be in a hurry to come down, let others and quiet people decide about the time. For the present think it must be December, but if it will not do January is also a good month, and even in February there are 29 _____________________________. Be sure the Lord will direct it all, so that we say <see>* one another again at a lucky hour! Frederick is now strong, eats even bread (excepting so much of it as he smears on his and other people's clothes, also flowers and leaves in short every thing he tries to collect in his mouth. How fond he is of walking can't endure to be put down for a length of time (meaning some minutes)

Miss K. is I believe more settled than she was in health and peace. - Barth writes he has been an hour with my father and found him well! still he rebukes me for not humbling myself because I visited him only once: I indeed had sent to him contributions to content him, but is the righteousness by works to supersede the confession of having done wrong? I wish this may never be the case at least in the more serious relations!

Tomorrow to Anjercandy. Peace be with us all, Greet the brethren and sister Weigle
 Yours HG.
