Mrs. Gundert, Care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tell 5 June 1847
 <Samst.>*
My dear wife

Two days ago I was happy enough to receive again a letter from you, giving some news about your health. I hope you do just what you are told and don't add any thoughts or concerns of your own doubtful heart, but the medicines become altered and spoiled If the Dr wishes it and you find it feasible of course you go even to Ootacamund and take the necessary time for all you are advised to do in the way of cure. I passed a day in Cann. with Hebich who has as much to do as ever and all with souls He has his regular guests from among the officers and I passed an evening with them, when Col Coffin got a lesson he will not easily forget. He took it however all in good part. I was singularly refreshed by the great measure of life which is working there - Mrs Fritz suffered from fever but is now well. Mrs Albrecht writes also of sickness in Dharwar. We are all again in a good measure of health. Miss Kegel considerably relieved: though her complaint dates as she thinks from the journey through the desert. She is now rather communicative with me and seems to be happy. Frederick knows me now and laughs whenever I take him to listen to my songs. Mrs Greiner has been ill more or less all her journey. Of Brennen I know nothing new - of course he will strive to overcome his affliction with carnal remedies. We had here for several days the fear of smallpox - but it has turned out to be merely waterpox but as it is now time for Frederick and we have many new people, we are about to have the vaccinator one of these days. I wonder how the Cooly will reach your house. He has however had some very fine days; if he made good use of them he may now be over the worst part of the way. - The nurse has for a month been nourished by us, but it turned out to be too expensive for herself as well as for us. So she is again eating her own food. 
There are little news here - it is in part owing to our own lifelessness. Nothing new or stirring Boys and girls and old people and ourselves nearly likewise are just going on by routine I wish something may break out that awaken us - the flesh is so easily satisfied and puts the spirit asleep if there be no trouble to the soul. I hope you enjoy much communion with the brethren and sister W. and may be enabled to help her a little, else I fear you have too much room left for your thoughts to wander home to our children or down to Tellich.

Tomorrow to Anjercandy, where Timothy is going on well - not however without complaints - the people are hard at work and the attendance at service is very small. Paul when he comes is as happy as ever. Thomas follows in his footsteps.

But now farewell. Greet the brethren

Grace and Peace be with you and Your
 H Gundert

