Mrs Gundert, care of Rev. G. Weigle, Ootacamund, pd

 Tellich 9 Jul 47
 <Frtg>*
My dear wife

Your letter of the 2nd I received yesterday when returning from the South. Thanks for all the good news (but quite in secret - I can assure you, your English is very faulty). The Mengerts have no more written: probably he is angry with the Committee because they asked him if he still considers himself in their debt for the 200 Rs he took from Hebich when going to Bombay. - Nothing from Calicut, none writes. - We heard from Hebich that he has had great troubles at Tahe. Tim's child was near death but is recovered. Benjamin and Lydia I hear have left Coilandi and are in Calicut, to superintend the girlschool. - The monsoon has been tremendously heavy for some weeks. Today the first fine day after I donot know how many rainy ones. - Mr West preaches at a Col. Tomkyns (?) he has there full liberty to preach and the Christians take the greatest interest in the Lord's Arabic Pers and Hindust. school, which now, he writes to Hebich, numbers 51 scholars. "So you see dear brother, he continues, that the Lord blesses my labour of faith." Really he is to be greatly pitied. - The large big girl is on the whole better and quiet. The Eur. children happy - no disease - Maj. Minchin I hope will not so soon drive you out of the house. The cooly came last Monday just when I left for the South. Selam for all the fine things, also from Mrs Irion. Give love to the brethren and to Sister Weigle whom I hope you will soon be able to assist a little in her daily occupations Fred. nicely. Miss K. occasionally ailing. In very good spirits
 Your H Gundert

