Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry

 Kaity 12 jully 47
 <Monday>*
Dear papa

Thanks for your letters of the 27 <Sonnt>* and 3 <Samst>* which came both on the 7th <Wednesd>*. I am glad to hear dear baby is nicely; since he is nerves you better not jamp him too much, by and by he may bear it better and even be thankful. I am happy to hear Marie is better and that she is not too much troubled with the dear child. It gives me much joye to see that you are going much about to preach; may the Lord bless his word that it may bring much fruits. I was strukt these days in reading in John. What is the will and wish of Jesus that his children may be one as he is one with the father, in this love they may ask any thing it will be greanted. The very little love which is among the people of God may be the cause they recieve so very little. We are surely saved by Grace through the Jesus Christ; but he requires of us obediance and his chif command is love. 
Mr Weigle has received for the Tellichery station 35 Rps for the keeping of those 3 Europeen children Blanckfort; it is I think the annual reveneu of the goods.

The Carpenter I told you of Eleazar who was with Mr Groves, the husband of Nianamah, has here but very little work. he wish to go in the Low country. He is not a very good carpenter; yet it would suffice for the first work. Do you think with the brethren. He could be employed at Tellichery teaching the boys? when there is no work he may be match*. _____________________ has come from Darwah with his wife and two small children; their jurney cost a good deal. Mr W was rather displeased. just now he is writing canarise for Mr W.

Misi and Dorcas have not yet written me a line. Mr Casamajor was here yesterday for the Canarise preaching. Mr Lascelles will not buy this plantation; it may be the bretheren will buy a part of it when they have permission. Some evening ago the bretheren run out to try to kill a bear which came quite near the house; but they could not cacht him. I begin to feel that affliction worketh patience, experience, and hope, but helas! what a little bit of patience and hope and how much less can I r‚joice yet in these. But shall he who has begun the work be descouraged and leave* ... account of my stupidity. And though sometimes I feel as if I could but repeat the mournful portion of the third of the Jeremiah's lamentation shall I not once fully sing praise to him whose faithfullnes shall be renewed every morning. I will then trust because he is faithfull. Do not think me entirely idle. Dear papa, the morning I try to learn Englise and _____________, after dinur we work together with Mrs W and the children. The clothes truly wanted me Nouw my love and salams to all.

 Your aff
 J Gundert

