Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

 Mangal 25 Oct 1849
 <Donn.>*
My dear wife

With much pleasure I received your letter of Sunday yesterday (Wednsday) evening when I had already begun to wonder why a week had to elapse before I got any news from you. But it was exactly the time when you left in the rain 8 days ago (6 afternoon) that the letter came to hands. I am glad to see you write quiet and donot suppose me surrounded with storms or swallowed by fishes. So Frederick does _____ me, this is very fine, I hope he will soon have me again at his side there is little prospect of my doing any thing with the Dr who is worse off than myself. - Tuesday evening there is the English meeting. Harris came in to see me. I asked after Mrs H. she is always weak and he hopes in Dec or Jan to go home for a visit. I enquired about his faith, he couldn't say he was full of it, but still he had and hoped it would grow - yet he is deeply in love with horses, dogs and officer's company, at least so one hears. Shortly after he had left, Stanger arrived, M's bride as they say and everything is now to be put in order. Layer's he says had a very wet journey to Vingorla, from whence they intend to go per Steamer to Bombay and will have gone by this time on board (?). Stanger brought plenty of boxes etc he will give me a muster of his sugar for your appreciation. The 2 watch makers <Bosinger, Muller>* are well in health and Müller has plenty of work and very remunerating work, this seems to make B. jealous and tho' their quarrels are over there is occasionally a remark heard that shows the fire burning underground. I am glad to see St<anger>* myself and hope that the stay here may also be of use to his soul, for in Malas. he seems to have been too much thrown on his resources. - Wednesday the young Brennen arrived with his 2 servants. He is now playing in the Verandah and seems happy as far as I can see, certainly better than I expected. Gnan. and John seem to have left - at least I do not see them any more, neither saw I them before but by chance - I could nt have had more useless compagnons than these, that is to say, 2 so entirely occupied with self. Mrs Buhler is doing her best for me, she also brought your watch but it has gone down to Cochin with all her things. of Mengert I hear the papers say that he has mistaken his calling etc. Weigle has written to me a long explanation about Br Hebich's knockdown theology, which I shall in due time bring with me. H. ought to learn to behave like other brethren, is the chief thing. You will tell this to our Tadi Saheb. Today he is with you, if all be right. I hope there will be a marked improvement in my health. Already I feel the Kissinger works for the better. But I shall never go in Manjil's any more, that made me thankful that I did not land a day before to go from thence by land. I could not have stood the shaking so long. John Ebenezer and Eddy Brennen are playing before my door. Eb says Selam to his sisters. So I to you all, Mam, Miss, men women and children 
The Lord be with you
 Yours in love H Gundert
