Mrs Gundert

 Saturday Morning
 <Mangalore 20 Oct 1849>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening I arrived safely the last station by land per Manjil because I did not like to spend another night at anchor the wind beating always into our face. The good people here were quite taken by surprize when I came into the lower compound. The Manji has not as yet arrived. So if I had not landed you would have received the letter a day later. I hope you have not been troubled much by fears - I passed thro' many clouds but without any rain. Here I am merely to send off this letter and then shall go to Balmatha where Bühler's live with M. She Mrs B. was landed by the custom house report boat from a french ship, the ship <sea>* being so stormy, that the Captain could not be persuaded to wait for disembarking the things. These have accordingly all gone to Cochin and it will be some time before they receive them. B. was very much ashamed that his bride landed without his being present. He had seen the ship from Balmatha but as it once retreated by stress of weather he gave course to his long nourished distrust - that she will never come and acordingly remained shut up till one called him down. When he presented her to Mgl. the latter said - no I cannot believe it, she cannot have arrived, I have been too often assured of the impossibility etc which made a very comical effect. Plenty Selams from all esp Mrs Greiner who is nearly or quite recovered from that troublesome cough. The children are all well - but still afraid of me. I think the secd boy of Mrs Bührer the stronger only 6 months and 3 teeth - Ebenezer was very happy on board when I left him yesterday evening. This night at last it rained - but no wind - E. will have had my little cabin for refuge, other wise he would have been drenched to the skin. Salute Mrs K. and kiss the dear children and tell them to behave well till the return of their Papa

