Mrs Gundert, Chiracal

 Calicut 9 Dec 1849
 <8 Samst.>* <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Enclosed the Dr's <Buchanan>* note of yesterday, from which you see and may tell Hebich that I showed myself to him already the first day of my arrival <7 Friday>*. He enquired very kindly and thinks I may be relieved by very simple means. I already take them and have good hopes to profit by his instrumentality. No mention whatever was made of the hills, whereof I am glad, having a very strong impression that they would have an injurious effect on me at this season. I hope to come back on Saturday, and trust you will find me already much inproved. Fred. is very happy: the trip did him good. He wants me to notice in my letter Mama, Mem, Mimi, Vau, Aisa, Aya, Nanny etc. he is much pleased with the arrangements here, but misses the potatoes at breakfast. Christian Irion of course was a more beloved playfellow than the little ones of this place: however he amuses himself with them also and has every confidence to Fritz and Huber. Yesterday evening he cried a little after Mama and Mem, but the sight of a monkey diverted him much. - 10th1 <9th>* Sunday Yesterday <(Saturday)>* Fritz came back and preached English today. But I did not go. The Dr came in after service and I asked him all about Frederick, to whom he has also begun to give medecine for his large stomach (he supposes worms). Fred. did not like it much - but took the powder after all like a good boy. Friday I propose to pass at Chombala <Donnerst 20 in Chomb.>*. Get Ostertag's letter translated to you. It reached me today with a letter of Hebich's and now with much love to you all farewell

 Yours affly
 H Gundert

