Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

 Calicut 7 Dec 1849
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening abt 6 o'clock I went on board the _____________ or _____________ about which Fred. was very much astonished - poor wind or none, hence much changing from oars to sail, and sail to oars - slow progress and much talks - which disgusted Fred. considerably. Once in the night he said _________________, but we were not yet halfway: and he wanted water but in a sawcer which we had not, and complained some time before he learnt to drink it out of the bottle. After all it was more than 7 ere we saw the roadstead of Calicut from afar and I wished at last to be landed, for Fred. complained of longer detention and Isabella gave a third edition of lessons for fishes. We landed accordingly not far from Conolly's house but could get no Manjil till we had walked in half the way - then I found one and Fred. though for a moment afraid liked the humhum after all very well. We arrived here about 9 in the morning - not very hot rather cloudy, also no landwind dangers in the night.

Fritz expected back from the Nayadis this night. The 2 children well, only Jimmy suffering a little from his last teeth. - NB. I found after all that the 20 ____ of sugar 3d Sort bought for Mrs I. have never been delivered. They must be in Heb's house and you better claim and keep them, as they stand already on our account. For your "Garn" I paid one Rup to Mrs Irion Keep that in mind if you have nothing better to do. Poor Fred thought at first on landing to see Mama and Mam and Mimi and Vau, and he sang already an extempore hymn about it, yet he is now not visibly disappointed, but seems to like the house and the children. I saw Lydia Therese and Marie - Th. looked best of the three. I could not as yet speak much. But judge of my surprize to see Mrs Fritz bring a bottle and ask if I may drink this. It is Kissinger water given by Strange about 5 or 6 years ago - I thought what joy that must be to you and drank at once a bottle out of time and very little of it I shall leave them if none stops me. To morrow I shall drink one early and feel as if I had come here for this very purpose. The Lord is very gracious to me. I am in good spirits, and particularly glad to see Fred. so reconciled to my guidance. Only he is afraid of my praying with him at bedtime.
Now farewell - love to all!
 Yours HG.

Herzliche Grüsse im Vorbeigehen

