Revd H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal 26 Octb 49
 <Friday>*
Dear Papa.

In your letter to Mr H. you complain of my silence; but we are so far here I do not know some time how to send the letters Well however by this time you have had two of mine. Frederich begins again to ask for you and when he goes out the evening he cannot understand why you are not coming to meet him. Now Nathanael has made him a fine little boat that he may ____________ ___________________________________________<brosh>. He has been very good these two days played much with Hebich yesterday got up without crying for his Akah. Paul is also very well. the two upper teeth are near to come which according to the Omen or augure of the girls he shall not grow up but grow down. I laughed and said never mind after he has gone down he shall go up for higher than we.

Saterday <27.>* I recieve your welcomed letter of thursday <25>* I am glad to hear the Kissinger water work for the better. I always dream that I hear you speaking loud so has Marie May the Lord greant it so. My best thanks to Mrs. B. for taking care of you. When your flanelles are dirty give it to Sister Greiner who will have it wash by one of her girls. We are all happy to hear she is so much better.

All here is going on as usael, Ester better, Judas not well as yet, but nothing serious, his wife <?>* pretty cross,

Well you had not much help by the people who went with you. I am sorry for it! Mrs. Temple was confined of a little girl who was dead already but the mother is well: I hope to pay a visit to Mrs Young monday after the meetings are over. We have had rain last night, not much though much thunders and lightenings it is rather warm, and very noisy at night as it is a feast for the Mapplas, our washer man came to ask me a new cloth for his feast, when I rebucked him he said he would not go to the feast but wash our clothes still he wanted a new mondu.

You might perhaps take of the Kissinger with you on the hills where they may still perhaps be more beneficient to your health, and We will wait upon the Lord to whom all is possible with his believers though the furnace may be very hot and keep one long it shall but turn to the Glory and profit of those who are tried, by there we are made partakers of the holiness of our heavenly father.

Frederich sends you kisses, his prickly heat is much better since I gave him a good beating for pulling down his trousers to be rubbed. Paul also the other night required a albow's medecine to go to sleep and he is a good dear child begins to understand the finger up.

Now what shall I tell you fit to be written forgive your poor stupide wife who does not know better

Sunday <28>* morning Ester is worse again an new woman who came from Tellicherry, takes care of her, the pox is streaching all over her body, she has fever, and smells terribly. last night I went for a ride with our two princes Paul was delighted and could not laughed enough so he screemed, and wanted to drive the horse. Frederic is happy and merry with the little Nannely woh some time play with him instead of Ebenezer, he has still good appetite. Every time he sees me writing he fancy it must be to papa, he then touches the paper and say _____________________ But after I had given him a flag the other day, he would no more come to pray with me as usael. 
Now goodbye the Lord be with you
 Yours afftly
 Julie Gundert

