Revd H. Gundert, Mangalore

 Chiracal 4th </5>* No 49
 <Sunday/Mond.>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of the 1rst. Why do you think it is a trouble for me to write you, since you have become a good papa and do not find fault I have a great pleasure to tell you what passes here though perhaps some what uncomprehensif to you from my unlearned style. The Omen or augure is but that children who get theie first teeth above do not live, however though close since some time none out as yet, but always a good boy more and more chearful, he does not like Mr H, will not go to him. I told him it was because of his long beard for he is very found of biting one's chin which he can not do with H. I told H that if our nomber goes on increasing as it has heatherto we would require an aditional room for sleepin, at which he started and said no no the girls can sleep in the open schoolroom. 
Now hear the report of the little singer, Paul can sing so fine when I sing _______________ he does it ______ thin* he does it too says Miss as soon as he hear the bell he sings, any thing of the shape of a book attracts him. Everythings here as usual. Ester better, Elisabeth going slowly towards a better world.

Jacob the Catechist said perhaps if master would smoke he would be better! Saturday I expected Mrs Young to spend the day but she did not come. he has gone to Calicut to settle a company who is to remain there. this will give some work to Mr Fritz I hope. How is Sophie Buhrer? she will have good deal to do Mrs G being absent all so week*. I am glad to hear about Mrs Buhler being so fit for Mangalore how is he in his health, can he bear the heat without much headach? try to come a little close with him if you but show him a little bit of confidence it is easy to come close. please to remember me to him kindly.

Sunday I have been at Can. H has pulled down the attars* of his rooms, made small holes to the roof two in each room and it is much cooler. The mother of Ester has come again and has fritened Mrs Kegel as she was alone, after much trouble she succeeded to put her out of the compound and shut it, then she gathered all those who passed by telling them that we had robbed her daughter and shut her up etc Mr H is now sending a pion to take her away she even said that she would rather put fire or hurt in someway or other, because we will not feed her with her 3 boys.

Now monday Mr Hebich has been obliged to come over because of the woman Ester's mother.

Now he thinks too that the bedroom of the girls is too small for fifty as they are; the part near the cookroom can but serve for the women. And we wish and beg for your consent, Mr H will tell you how he means to do it. - 
I meant to send you a letter for your parents and children but now it is too late as Mr H will take this to the post. Love to all and from all  Yours J Gundert

<sag' dem lieben Br. Moegling - die Chr. Müller's Rs. 50- haben sich 44. bei Gundert und 6. bei Hebich gefunden nach Chr.s Aufklärung Erzbetrüger!>* 
