Mrs Gundert
<with plenty Salam from yr S He>*1

 Mgl 8 Nov 49
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Best thanks for your letter of the 5th which I received yesterday - 1 hour too late for sending the note to the Ostertags - why do you delay such things for the very last day. I wrote to Haering and Papa and asked also for Kissinger which I hope may arrive before Monsoon. I whish Paul soon to get his teeth above or below wherever it be and I will soon expose my chin to his bite - You may tell Jacob <Ramav>* that my illness would have forced me to give up smoking if I had not done so before. So no more of that! - I am sorry for that annoyance of Esther's mother and hope the Lord takes you out of it soon, either by sending the mother away or allowing the Devil to get the girl. For if she will not repent to keep her with so many others is a most dangerous thing. I hope you give my love to the children to esp those that pray for me. I am truly better, and hope the Lord will soon restore me. My idea is to leave this about Thursday <15> or Friday <16 Nov>, so as to arrive Saturday <17> next. I trust that this leaves time to send to me any steamletters that may come. I shall take some Kiss. bottles with me and Fred. may taste it too. Moreover I have prepared some paper-soldiers for him, at which he will be not a little astonished. I bring your watch which M says goes better than Heb's. Also a bit of sweet things from Stanger. Weigle's I hear (in secret) are likely to give up their charge with the Elliotts it may be after all they are coming down again but be silent. Groves has begun a quarrel with that old menteur Minchin, about selling Casamajor's Mare in the sugar Company.

Mrs B. begins to open and relate many things that interest me. Tell Heb. that Maj Hill who came out with her remembers him in love. A change seems to have come over that merchant Giles whose death he and we expected already. Perhaps he may still recover. He was quite resigned. Tell Elizabeth to believe to the end and may the Lord be with us all in live and death!  Yours HGdt

