Mrs Gundert, Chiracal

 Nettur 6 Dec 491
 <(auf der Reise nach Calicut>* <Thursday>*
My dear wife

I am sorry I can just not find any paper and must now write to you on this scrap. We arrived safely with few drops at last. A lantern met us, when Fred became frightened at the dark. Then he recognized the road at the turn from the seashore and made Hm! Hm! also did we still find Hehnly etc up, but Kitshan was asleep already - I found it after all better not to go by way of Mahe and Chomb. but directly to Cal. and hope to arrive there Saturday morning with the grace of God. Fred is very happy. I keep as quiet as possible, made no map to your joy be it said because the writer had _________________________________. I hope by God's mercy you have been spared any hard experiences with Arabella and that all is going on quietly. I am happy to say Mrs Muller is very anxious soon to visit you and I think if I return they will not allow us to wait long for them. I have also great confidence that Fred. will benefit by the journey. Paul I hope does not miss me too much. This morning I lanced also Charles' teeth. Your sugarletter for the Hayes arrived you give yourself unnecessary trouble. You keep 4 newspapers for Cherical and send the rest to Hebich with my letter. No news any more. I hope the Lord gives you a good and quiet season. Be not disturbed about me. I am nearly as quiet as a fish and have also written to Weigle for some bottles more of Kissinger to be sent to Calicut. So you have got a fine letter wers glaubt! Well I hope you are content. Grace be with you Greet all

 Yours H Gundert

Nettur 6 Dec 1849

