Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal 1 N<ov>*ber 49
 <Donn>*

Monday <29 Oct>* as I was going to Cannanore with Frederic, the moment he saw the sea he exclaimed Eh papa ____________________________ this he said very emphatically. At C I found your letter with other was much rejoiced by the news that you do really feel better. May the Lord continue to cure and help, as for the idea of the Dr I would wonder if he was right it would be perfectly as our girls who always pray that your _________________________ _______________________, well time shall proove, but I have little confidence in the D my wish is that the provision of Kissingen water might be as the wedow's oil and flour, it may also be done if necessery, Well I am glad that you feel cool at Balmata we cannot boast of cool but feel the heat increasing dayly. I ask F what I shall say to papa his unswer is __________ good boy and indeed he is pretty good, some what more obedient Mr Irion has just send the french news paper which I am of coarse to send back without opening. Hayes wrote with it but a few lines being in great haste with officials matters. "wher glaubes". In Telli they have heard from M. that you are better and that he is very glad to have charged Mrs B. with housekeeping's business. You will have heard a good deal of news through her from home. Aske her please if she has not been charged by Mrs Weigle to buy kniting books for me, please to pay them to her for I hope she has brought them out and she better not to send them to Mrs. W for they are for our school.

Mr Hebich says that Mari's writing is very beautiful. Frederich shall be glad of the pictures but still more glad to see you. When H. comes Paul looks astonished as if he would say but it is not my papa. When I call for papa he looks towards the gates of the compound He is exceedingly pleased when his brother is so well disposed as to carry him by the feet Isabella by the arms in crying like the palkee* boys which noise Frederic knows pretty well. Last night I had many dreams though not very clear to me, in awayking my impression was that great hapiness is for those who are humble and lowly, so well empty of oneself that one mihgt say after Paul when I am weak then I am strong. the Lord glorifies himself in our weakness and with the things which are nothing he will do some things, so I was made happy by the words of Paul to the 1 Cor I-27-31

Paul fancies that every book must be an hymnbook as soon as he can catch hold of one he sings as loud as he can, Thursday Mr Hebich has not come he was employed in burrying Bartholomus, and doing his account, he said if he was wanted for any thing he would come. The mother of Ester has come to see her. She is nearly the same when some of her pox have gone new ones are coming again.

The mother of Ester is making pretty much noise after I send her to C Hebich sent her off quickly, but she came here again I now send her again to H. she is ready to tell every kind of lies on the mission

We are all as usual and always anxious to hear how you are going on, tell us every things.

Please to give my thanks to Mrs Cummin, for the present she has kindly sent to our children through Nianamootu I shall D. V. write her in my next to you I would also write home if not so tiried. by and by all will be right. Now peace and Joye from above, love from all kisses from our children  Yours aff J. Gundert

You remember the Pion of Cavaye, he has died so his wife with four girls has come to H all these are an addition to our school the big ponata has not yet come being sick in the house but after one or 2 days she is to follow and join those wo are here.

Hebich has just paid us a visit at 7 o'clock evening after the burryal drunk tea spoake a litte played much with children and fort* 
