 Mng 12 Nov 49
 <Monday>*

My dear wife

I hope Mr Heb will give you some of the news from home. The Comm. orders here many changes and Mögl will again have a lot of writing work before him. Perhaps Weigle's are after all to return to Mng and then we shall see Pauline for some days I hope. Groves has again been on the hills and made a noise about money matters with Minchin and Weigle John Groves' came out as sleerage passengers! I am now talking quite intelligbly, but take care to say nothing that is not necessary - the Dr came again and ordered the blister on the neck to cease - a gargle which he ordered is to finish the cure. But of the Kissinger water and its great use he is hardly aware. My idea is still to return on Saturday this week and perh. Br Hoch is to accompany me as he requires a vacation. So don't send me any more letters, as I intend to leave on Thursday or Friday the weather being propitious. - I am glad you have done with Esth's mother if really it be now accomplished. The Lord keep you from all the wrath of men and Devils. So so? My dear Paul will no more sit quietly and requires flogging even for lying quietly abed? What shall I do to him - perhaps I bring sweet meat or Sugar candy - and for you also borer, _______ and other stuff. Miss Keg's watch arrived - and when wound up went most regularly - perhaps it required nothing but a little trip of recreation. However Muller will look yet more attentively. He has perhaps 60 watches still to make. Nearly every post brings one. - I wonder if you will receive me after all your dreams. For if they represented me as poor and miserable, I trust they will be put to shame amazingly, and then you have the choice either to keep the Gundert of your dreams or to receive the real fellow in the strength of reconvalescent health. But I trust you are not so much in love with your fancies as to reject me, though you be obliged to confess you allowed the devil to trouble you for nothing. 
Whatever the Lord will have us to do we will then try to accomplish. I trust I shall not be hasty in taking up some work, but by degrees it will all come back. Mrs Bühler is quite taken up with her first Europ. letters received here - Old Möglg visited our king twice who helped him in every possible way to obtain grace for his foolish son in Baden. His leg is healing and will only by contracted by an inch or so - Josenhans has a little girl, born in Sept, which he now calls his Mission child. - If you write to the hills, don't say much of the expected change I don't know if it is intended to be still a secret. But the chief cause is that Elliot's have determined that they keep their children themselves till she return with them to England. Greiner's are still out in the country. Of Ammanns I see and hear nothing. Now love to Miss Kegel, Missy and all - Kiss the children and wait patiently for
 Yours affly H Gundert

