 C. 8 Nov 70
My dear wife

I am sorry you took it so much to heart about the house rules, but as Paul is somewhat better, perhaps it matters not so much. Surely they make some difference between visitors out of the city and those from the country, and as you feel a drawing, you need not be always equally exact and punctual. I wonder whether the stomach's action is perhaps a sign of a better state of the bowels than that before the cramps? How easy for God to reach the seat of the disease and change the root of the matter! Any how you will take care that Paul gets the needful from our dear people. Should you not buy a dozen of Champagne - I imagine, it must not be French wine, but Esslinger will do the selfsame thing. I say this only that you may try. For the present I cannot come away and as you feel easier about our dear patient I would like to defer my visit till the end of the week. You will let me know how you think it best to be arranged.

Here the recruits were again singing and drinking as in the old days, no mark of a change. But how thankful I am, that none of my sons is running with them thro' the streets!

All is well here, only the work of the pen drags its way heavily through all the queer thoughts that rise before it. I sometimes feel as if I became a little old, and thoughts would no more obey the command, but go and come according to their own liking.

Hannesle brought potatoes, but took no money. He wanted a photography of Paul instead, that would be more to him than 2 Fl. He really would not be brought round. Marie heard from Theodor that he will soon come here via Vienna. Now good bye and may the Lord give you some happy hours and days, as he will surely at last give you centuries and eternities. 
 With kiss
 Your H G
