 <ca 3 Octbr 70 Stuttgart>*
Dear papa

Good morning to you all. We arrived in Stutgart well <1 October>* Paul did not feel the fatigue too much remaind up till 8 the evening, he must have however been excited; for the night <1 auf 2>* was not good, Yesterday <(2)>* he felt nicely, though the throat is very sore he can scarsly speak; this night <2 auf 3>* has been good, slept from 9 eve till 12, and from 2 again till 4 he is more chearful, and was glad to hear that we have called for Dr Sick to see him, the woond flies a gread deal thick matters with defectiv smell.

If Adolph is well towards noon (who had yesterday severe choliques) Mama and Miss Mall will go with us to Boll <(am 3t.)>* for one day. Anna, Samuel, and Caroline paid us a visit yesterday <(2)>* evening all very nice when I spoke of David coming on the 10th Mama said that she would go sleep with tante to give him her room, which I would not accept, then Emma came who said that she would prepare her former room above which has become a crust cummer, so he will I know be contented and thankful to get that little room rather than to go to Olg S where I would have beged Caroline to give him room. We sleep in Mama, room whil she sleeps on the saufa in the dining room.

the Doctor <Sick>* has just been here <(3?)>* has found the wood very deep the bone much affected, so I think we shall put Paul in Diaconisshouse after having been for a few days in Boll, I would rather remain here at once but P likes to try Boll. I go with Emma to ask for room in Diaconnishouse is it your mind the evel is deep and in a difficult place.

 Adieu love to all.
 Yours J. G.
