 Corcelles first Mai 1870
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of the 28 recieved yesterday. I thank also dear Jettle and my Friederle, they of course do not expect a letter from me I know; Many thanks for all the news, I have learnt a little more of my neveu as I told him that Francis is half catholic he said he is like me a Materialist, as I knew little of it, he then explained me his religion which does not differe much from the heathen, The ship on which he was from Francisco to Newyork was sudunly reckd on sand, they saved their lifes as well as they could 700 had to pass four days on the sea shore waiting anxiously to be seen from another vessel, every day each got a very small piece of biscuit with half a glass of water, had they had to wait longer they would have had no choise but eat each other 32 died in those days of thirst, himself could no more speak when the ship came near, two women were confined on the sand their little ones thrown in the sea imideatly; I would like him to come to Calw you might perhaps do him good, Uranie wishes too that he would come to us during the time she is in Bad where she intends to go at the end of May if it is warm, Would you allow that he comes to Calw?

To day I heard a preaching of Mr Coulon, I would have heard him again this afternoon; but there were visites here.

Uranie has not been abel to go out till now she has a large boil on the left arm; but it is now getting better, and hope that she will soon be well again, This week I may perhaps go to Rolle, Wednesday is here the fair I would like to see it. Till now it has been so cold that one had fire in the oven daily, friday we had a goodeal of snow. to day monday it rains. If Fritz was coming with me I would go during the night that we may not be in Bale one night go early from here and set out the evening at Bale, what do you say to it? Tuesday 3d now I hear that Fritz has not great wish to come to Germany though I would be glad if he could come it might do him good; 
I am thinking to go saturday to Rolle, remain the sunday, monday back, on my way go to Reuse to see the De Pourtales,

Yesterday Uranie was very poorly, had fever, to day she is better, How are you all? I have of cource heimweh; but the time will soon be over; and I am glad to have come; though I find colder than in Calw, the wind blows very strongly,

Hearty love to Marie and her pets to dear Jettle to my dear Frederic and his brothers, love to all in the house and to Emelie and her mother, Love to our dear children in India and America. Fritz is a great talker, he speaks English very well.

Now Adieu the Lord be with you and us

 Yours affectly
 J. G.

You have sitsung or conference to morrow.

Uranie sends love to you all. How is Schnürle love from me to both, does Emelie know how is Dorle Kruner?
