 Calw 11 Oct 70
My dear wife

This noon your letter arrived. I am glad you had at least a tolerably fine afternoon. David will tell you of our way to Weil, I wanting to talk to him and he learning his French words from Kappler's house to Weil. With Krauss we walked to Merklingen, past soldiers who occupy it on acct of the Rinderpest. Found Mrs Christlieb just arrived before us at Krauss' her brothers house, saw baby and its mother staid a while (when she began to make chocolade) went off before it was accomplished, then got smoked at the exit from the village (for our purification, which was attested by a paper handed to each) reached Mühlhausen in rain and wind 12."30' and gave the Nudeln for the dinner. Herm. father and daughter, Röslers, Schmitthenners were there and we had a fine time. Herm's son is getting better it seems. Returned 4_1/4 - 7_1/4 on foot, Elise preferring to walk instead of waiting for the post. No rain in returning. - Today Gros from Giengen was here, who had placed Immanuel at Tubingen (prof. Maier) for his learning. He had been sick to death about the time of the landexamen, but may try it once more next time. The parcel from Hermann arrived too.

I am glad to hear you found so many warm friends at Boll, may the change to Stuttgart help on towards the recovery of dear Paul We are much with you and the dear sons, who have both to pass examinations of different kinds. Don't be in a hurry to come, but see that all be done for Paul as well as it can be expected. We must hope that our dear Lord will do all for his best also without us, but what ever his will may be we will accept it cheerfully, He cannot hurt us or ours, tho' he try us by fire and water. 
Fred has been anew disappointed by hearing from Nath that he may wait yet for a few weeks longer as Mrs Braun is not to leave the Mission house before the end of October. He now would wish very much to be already at Bale, as to be engaged for 3 years seems to him a very long time.

David I hope is of good cheer. We think often of him too. Gros has much regretted not seeing either you or Paul or Marie and her children. Hermann Gr. is in Chemnitz, Heinrich at Newyork

Now goodbye and may the Lord help you and guide you in all your steps 
 With love Your H G
