 Calw 10 </19>* August 1870
 <In Mt. Clem. Sep. 8. 1870>*
My dear children

Many thanks for your wellcome of 12 July. thanks also for your sympathy with me regarding our dear Paul. David is now sleeping with him so that I have always good nights, as David does not allow any one to change with him at night, it is true that one can but do very little for Paul often nothing at all. but to hear <him>* groaning, turning himself in the bed would disturb me more than David who can again at once sleep. Poor Paul ist still the same in body and in mind, as obstinate as ever, he argues readily, gets hot and excited, defending his views with such assurance that it grieves one, he needs no repentance, humility is to believe my humility is not the right one. I do not understand what is that to be humbel, etc. in fact he justifies himself on every point, I fear there is much pride and I can only comfort me with the thought that his mind is affected. and we all evoid to speak with him on religious subjets, he suffers much from headache specially at night, the wound is still filled with matters the ear quite deaf and paining.

About the war papa is telling you all. I can only say that God has been very gracious to me and kept me in quietness of mind till now, every where are prayer meatings, we may hope that many hearts are turning to God in their troubels and anxieties. Churches are filled for a prayer meating in every town and villages.

Adieu dear children I was glad to hear that dear Tine with children are well with kisses to all
 Yours affectly J. G.

Fritz Fillinger shall I hope return to America, he is still the same for Uranie I shall be glad if he goes away
