 9th </10th>* Oc<t 70>*
Dear papa

Your letter has just come for which many hearty thanks, Paul expected it I not, but was nearly glad, how very quickly one can hear from Calw, while the one of dear Emma was tow days on the way; but no she wrote on the 7th and came yesterday evening.

room ready in deaconess home if the weather is tolerabel we shall go to morrow, it is still to be seen, The dear Blumhearts very kind both of them, yesterday evening came Mrs StatPf Knapp with the bride and a sister, this morning came the bridegroom with his son they look very happy, she seems to be such a fine sweet soul, they all take great interest in us, Mr Eigner doubts not that David shall pass; for one want young men now he says, I go to sleep good night

10th Paul had no good night, restless and peins, We must take a carriage for us; for Paul could not go in the Omnibus. Mr B who is full of love and compasion would pay half or it; but I shall not accept it if I can, to wait for a better weather would perhaps be of no use, we take a good carriage which can be shut up and no Einspenerle In the house is a Miss Zislein from Bale who knew Herman well he used to go every day in the house and was loved of them all. Mrs Knapp asked also much after him. and also after dear Jettle as well as the bride.

Mr B has just had a long conversation with dear P spoke plain and according to all his wants in truth he understands his case well and spoke faithfully with love. May God Himself convince him.

I leave this open to be able to say how we came to Stutg. We leave here after two and come to Stut about 6 OC

M B would not have it otherwise he gave to Paul a thaler which is the half of the pai to Geppigen

 With hearty love to all
 Yours J. G.

Paul is somewhat enxious about the operation he shall have perhaps to undergo he wishes and pray that there be none

You will soon write to him, he likes your letters, I do not know when I shall come to Calw I would like to see and hear dear P two days perhaps, hower I shall still write or David. Mr B did not allow me to pay at all for the 8 days here which would be at least 20 fl We may after ward send a present
