 Corcelles 6th May 1870
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of 1 May. I felt tired when I came to Biele; but a cup of milk restored me perfectly; I gave to Nathanael W. the little parcel.

I shall D. V. go tomorrow to Rolle, spend the sunday, return monday, on my way back see Mr. De Pourtales, to whom I wrote a few lines in order to find them at home, so you are in Waiblingen while I be in Rolle.

The Lord will guide our dear Frederic and show him where he is to work; meanwhile I thank him for caring so well for the celler, garden etc. I thank him specially for writing me so diligently, it does me good to see my Friederle s hand, Uranie sends him true love, The Aricots "bohnen" are perhaps frosen, here it is also very cold, even snow felt on wednesday. I thank dear Jettle for her kind note I have not yet been in Neuchatell, next week will began her troubel with house cleaning. The meat in the celler will keep well as it is so cold, You have enough I hope for the feast? I thank her as well as dear Emelie for the news, about Dorle Gruner please give her my love, as well as to Mrs Seeger, Shnürle, Weitbrecht, Dr Barth girls, Mrs Sheffel is alone if the two Miss W have left. sincere love to her and C.

What are doing the two pets? a kiss from me. And you dear Marie, you are well I trust many peopel here ask after you and send you love Please remind David to send his wash on Saturday 14th

I am greatly disapointed in poor Fritz F. his unbelief is daily more coming to light, his hatered against mission is felt, every moment he can say, Missionaries should go to such and such place to civilise the peopel, the money which is gathered for them is used to make powder to kill the poor hindous, they help the English against the natives etc. he can talk fearfully, he hates the English. in a few month their pride will be put down; India shall be taken from them, Germany in a very short time shall recieve it. due and deserved punishement, etc. he has nothing in mind but politique to which Uranie and myself have*; but the Bibel to fight against him, and now I keep rather quiet not to provoque and iritate him, I am glad for Uranie that he speaks of returning soon to America. May he do it 
I am very glad to hear that Mr. Buser is going to Calw I pray dear Marie to write a word saying that I shall be very thankful to make the journey with him on the 16th. I shall go to B on the 14th Saturday D. V. as to be there to set out on Monday. I long to come home again; but shall be glad of course that the job of cleaning be over as the two young ladies are glad to have it alone I thank them heartily for it.

This is perhaps my last to Calw. Hearty love to you all, to Paul and David when you write, many peopel ask after Paul with much interest. Love to the dear peopel in Stutgart, Uranie will keep to the Bath she is accustemed, she sends hearty love.

 With love.
 Yours J. Gundert
