 Corcelles 27th Avril 1870
Dear papa

At 6 ocl we came to Pforzheim where dear Theodor found it so cold that he would not take the third class but first In Appenweier he left me, then came in the vagon where I was left alone a lady with her daughter took place till Off. where she helped me to take my ticket. In every station I found according to your writing. In Bale I was very Glad to see N<ath>* W.<eitbrecht>* who kindly took a trochke to the central bahn he found that a trochke was cheaper and quicker than the Omnibus, he came along we had just time to take my tiket, In Olten we arrived after the time and remained before setting out till a quarter past four. there I began to eat my Appel and eat bread with meat. from Olten where many soldiers intered the vagons it was so full that till Bienne some could not sit. here we arrived 6_o_-_40 left half an hour after we left after having taken a good cup of milk of which I was in real want, I set near a lady who was going to la Chaudefond. she advised me not to take a billet in N but just to follow them in the other vagon, it was dark had to pass three trains before reaching the right one were scarsly in that it set out for Corcelles, where I found Fritz, at the Gar waiting. I heard that Uranie was rather poorly. She has indeed become very weak. She suffers much in one arme, She will go again in Bad in June. She has a great joy in Fritz who is quite an other man, not converted but in every thing changed, evoieds all his old acquantances, remains at home, has even offered Uranie to read her the bibel one day as she was very unwell. in eating and drinking very sober, he has not come to sell his things; but to see Uranie and hear all he pleases me well. the Lord be praised for such change we leave Him the rest. he intands to return to California where his health is much better than in America. he likes to be there, however he does not yet know quite sure what he will do, he has a great liking pour la marine not to be sailor but to have to do with the provisions or goods when imbarking and disimbarking 
Uranie is thank God better to day, she has in mind to have afterward an Oction to sell that which she does not want and go in her own house at least take a part of it for herself with a servant girl rather a companion, she has just the opportunity to get a person of Corcelles who was 11 years in one house much beloved of her masters, I advise her much to do so, From America they leave her no rest, she must now rest with a servant or companion, and she could not get a better one than the one she can yet have. she is just now cooking for us. Uranie deffends herself and says afterward I shall take her intirely; but we press her to do it soon; for the nice girl might get an other place.

Now the Lord has been very good to me I feel quite well and was kept very quiet during the voyage.

How are you all? Marie is in Stutgart are her pets well? Love to Paul and David when you write Love to you all from me, love from Uranie and Fritz. I hope to hear soon from you

 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert.
