 Calw 20th Nov 1870
 <R 22 crt>*
My dear Frederic

Papa writes you all the sad news about Anna I feel much grieved. 
Dr Shütz has seen Paul gives good news of him, but papa did not find him so well.

At Calicut I knew a Mrs. Cook she came now and then in the mission house I visited her too; but we did not like her much she was considered as very econome, even beyound real economy; when the first Mrs Fritz was ill she used to send now and then a few eggs, once or twice I made her a service she repaid it with sending me a few eggs too, where she might well have given some thing to the mission, however she might be excused for being very econome because the first wife of Mr Cook a very nobel lady used to spend and give so much that they got in debt, though he had a very high pay as Civilian! The children of the first wife who had been accustomed to a very nobel and grand style did not like her; but he was glad to get rid of his debts through her management, She was a governess in India before she married. But the Mrs Cook you speak of can scarcely be this one could he be a banquier having had such a high office in India but rather say nothing about my remarques, it is not necessary for the young lady to know it 
I am very glad to hear that you have got a room of your own, I hope that you sleep well and keep it in a beautiful order!

Give my love to those who remember us specially Mrs Hager, how is Mrs Inspector? and her family, In Liebenzel is Theodor Herman not yet better! Have you been with the Buser?

 Adieu dear son
 Yours Julie G.
