 Basel 28 Jun 70
My dear wife

Yesterday evening I got your kind letters with Marie's and Herm's. It was just about the time when Ernst came from Waibl in the same train with Blumhdt Looked of course first after news from dear Pl and was in a measure prepared for slow progress. We must learn it yet better to wait for the Lord's own time and give thanks meanwhile because he is good and His mercy endureth for ever!

Dined yesterday with Ostertg, was much asked after Marie the dear children, and Charles - Emily thought to the last moment, Marie wd still perhaps come. Today dined with Mrs Hoch, eyes pretty well, her daughter Marie has however caught the contagion. Her aunt spoke nicely of Charles who was with her in the alumneum, she liked much his quiet spirit. Her Paul gives her some anxiety with his light minded manner, tho' on the whole he behaves well.

Of course the chief event was Braun's falling asleep whilst I had the Martinsstunde, Sunday 5 o'clock and prayed also for the dying. Christ-Sarasin announced it in the garden. After him spoke Prof. von der Golz and Dr Appia from Genf. Mrs Br. seems much comforted, he hardly awoke quite from his stupor, talked now and then, but not quite clear in his senses. He felt however that Inspector was praying at his bedside, and named him, to show he knew what he was about. The burial will be this evening. I hope to come a little sooner, about Friday night, if I can manage it.

Pfleiderer is also here, very nice and affectionate Burkhdt pretty well, recovered as it seems to me Hauff arrived by a nighttrain.

Insp spoke with me about Fred. he may be called soon for the work here. 5-600 Fcs and every thing free, but a room in common with the other commis, a Pfleiderer from Waibl. br. of the professor, who seems to be a nice quiet young man.

Müller came to see me, has a fine spirit Staiger met me at the terminus, also cheerful. Layer thanks for Fr's letter, is glad with his Mama. 
Mrs Wurm etc send love to you and Marie much love to dear Paul and let him wait quietly upon the Lord. He surely has not forgotten our wants, and is busy about providing for them.

Ernst will also go into Switzerland. He complains that I snore in the night, which is so far a good sign as I am not in the least aware of it 
 With much love
 Yours H Gdt
