 Calw 4 Oct 70
My dear wife

This morning at last your letter with one from Emma, after we had from Mrs Scheffel heard in the evening, Dr Sick had advised the deaconess home for the winter and had pronounced the illness caries. Now I can well feel how much that will have affected you. But the Lord can do wonderfully above all our fears and doubts. Let us look to him and give Pl entirely into his hands.

I have written to Gauss, but the new arrangemt of the railtrains will have made it unnecessary and changed the hours. Mögl also I had asked to come, so it was not possible for him to know the time.

I am quite decided that it is best for Paul to remain under Dr Sick who certainly from the first took the greatest interest in him So let it be settled that we begin with Nro III in order to show that we are not great people, but we change to Nro II as soon as it appears desirable esp. if Paul gets not a nice neighbour. I wrote so to dear Emma, and hope God himself will direct you when you come back to Stuttg as there is full liberty for you to arrange all that you think right.

Plenty love to dear Paul, the house looks now very empty without you both. Fred has been ordered to wait still longer here, but God will call him in the right moment.

Use the time in Boll for getting up a supply of good hope faith and patience, we shall of course find use for all of it. God can do wonderfully above all we fancy, and any how he leaves us his dear Son to be enjoyed in all the sufferings He sends. We will hope and trust that also in this winter he will glorify Himself by all he sends.

Much love to Blumhdt, also to my friend Wetzel when you see him, and thank for the little pamphlet he sent me about his father in law, Osiander. 
I have had the betstunde on Sunday, and gone to the other 3 meetings. In Hirsau that poor thin and deaf woman has come again, pretty well cured and nice in spirit, as it seemed to me. You know her who gave Guldns for the Mission. So the Lord helps still many a sufferer. David is very diligent, so is Jettle. Love from all. I hope soon to write more. Samuel's letter any one may read! God help you farther!

 Your H G
