 Boll 4th Oct 1870
Dear papa

I came with a heavy heart to Boll after having heard the sad declaration of the Do, had I heard it in the begining when we both thought it may be that the bone is attacked; but now when I was in full hopes of Pauls recovery! It is the Lord His will be done; may we learn that which He intends to teach us I was very glad to have good company here Mama, tante and Eugenia <Mohl>* they remain till tomorrow. We were recieved very affectionatly Mr Blumhart paid this morning a visit to Paul as he was still in bed having had a sleepless night. he is rather weak to day, however we have been sitting in the garden some hours as it is so warm. Paul liked Mr B well only on one point they did not agree an stuttying sciences; else they were pleased with each others, Had he known that Paul is so ill he would not have asked him to come here; but now even as ill as he is the Lord may help, so we remain for the present it may at least be blessed for his soul. 
I hope to hear soon what is your mind regarding the Diaconissehouse for P. his throat and tongue are very stiff. he salutes affectionatly saying that he feels very quiet about the future. the Lord will make all right. Out of the woond comes a gread deal of matters he complains himself of the smell which it has.

The vicar son of Mr B is here he saluted Paul kindly as we arrived. there are still many peopel the tabels are full, You know already that the post goes but once in the day, that is at 4 In Göppingen a person sent by Mr Gauss told us that they had disingage the fuhrman seeing we could take the post; the new regulations begun yesterday so we were excused. 
The coffer came open and broken, the piece of lether where the lock was fixed gave way so that the lock is quite taken away. I must send the box to Kirchheim to be mended I hear.

5th Your letter came yesterday evening, it gave me much joy and comfort hearty thanks for it as also for the one of dear Jettle Eugenia sends her love. Paul had a better night sends hearty love, likes to hear Mr B. Mr Petulieus is also here, very kind to us. Every day there are some going and coming, So Fredde has to wait longer, he has to learn patience and perhaps shall feel the more thankful for work. In Eslingen came Mr Mögling some what late I did not see him as I was with P on the other side, tante Ema said O Herr M as I came to look, he was behind but had in haste given to tante 3 fl 54 c with love. I shall have heimweh after our dear Stutgarter who are going. If on monday the rom is ready in Diaconess and I have the coffer back I trust we shall go to Stutgart if not already sutterday I shall see what Emma writes and wat says Paul; With hearty love to all  yours J. G.
