 Calw 7 Mai 70
My dear wife

I cannot write much as I have to arrange a good deal before going to Stuttg tomorrow morning early, but I will lose no time to thank you for your letter which is with David now. Of course Fritz is quite welcome if he likes to pay us a visit, but you will abstain from inviting or pressing him too strongly, if you find that he has no mind for it. I fancy also it would not be worth the money if he came merely to please you.

That materialism seems to be very common now in America, and also hereabouts, when we look more closely at men.

Thursday afternoon I went with Hermann of Liebenzell to Bulach - by post as far as the bridge, then on foot, arrived at 2 o'clock before the Pfarrhaus, just for the burial. This was rather a long business, much singing before the house, then a considerable walk with a great crowd, on the burial ground a sharp wind. Decan spoke on the wonderful ways of God: 41 years ago she had been married, this very day her daughter was to become Mrs Riderer, and the mother had repeatedly said, she fancied, she would not live to that day. Afterwards Kopp, the Vicar, read her life, she was nearly 68 years old. Sch. was very much moved, often in tears, but also very comforted. He mentioned afterwards, that she had been just washing a pair of stockings for the bride, when the Schlag took place. They found her lying near the wasserstein at 9 in the morning. About 3 or 4 she died, having hardly recovered her senses. She had been very pious in her quiet way; only a few days ago as she knelt in the evening before her bed, she rose up, "quite as if she had done something bad", when her daughter came into the bedroom. Weitbr came also with us. We then returned, but I did not sleep well. Slept therefore in the afternoon.

Nothing from Paul or David. Freddy is very quiet, Carle always nice with us, Theodor noisy. Mary sorry, that Peregr will not go to the Zellers. 
Mrs Schauffler had always wished 2 things about her death 1. to die before her husbd. 2. to die quickly, because she was afraid of the fear of death when it should draw nigh. Now in this she was heard.

Stuttg 9 Mai. Yesterday early I came here, found GrMama rather poorly, went with Plebsts und Ad. und Emm to Waiblingen, where Mrs Bührer had died on the 7th. At the Missionfeast Ernst, Müller and I spoke, then I saw Decan who feels his loss very deeply, and other friends. David was with us the whole day, very tender tho' somewhat silent. I slept with Adolph's, having business with him, Ann very well. Sam afraid of me, little Annie laughing at me. I stop here till Tuesday for a Miss. Conference. So now farewell  Yours H G.
