 C. 6 Nov 70
My dear wife

Emma's dear letter came only after 6 o'clock; yours this morning. I can well fancy that you have some hard hours with our dear Paul. But it will soon be seen what our father intends with all these miseries of the moment; any how they are not to be compared with the weight of glory that is to come from them. Let us possess (or acquire) our souls in patience. I preached this morning and had afterwards Missionsstunde, at 5 Betstunde here, and afterwards the Jünglingsverein. With God's grace I hope in a few days to have done with the chief papers and then to see Paul. 
I fancy you will soon hear from the Doctor what had best be done for him, let him have whatever he likes and risk even a removal; or keep him under his (the doctor's) eyes till the crisis be over. You need not ask me about my view of the matter, as my eyes are shut and I have confidence that what the Dr says will be right.

I hear that Hermann in Liebenzell is not yet considered out of danger. Also Nestle is still delirious and speaks much of dying. So we have our share in the anxieties of many parents at this season, and it is right that we bear them with the joyful gratitude to God for that which he has wrought already in our dear Son, that he has believed in his Saviour and is safe in Him! How many parents have not this comfort and must see their sons die in an uncertain state of mind.

If you need me, you had best telegraph to me and I come with the next opportunity.

My love to David, Emma, dear mother and aunt. I will send this off by way of Nagold

Jette went with me to Stammh Now goodbye and may grace support you!  and Your H Gdt
