 127 May 70
My dear Dr Mullens

You will perhaps remember, that on the 12 March and 4th May 66 the late Dr Tidman addressed me on the subject of the late Mr Lechler's son James, promising to pay towards his maintenance the sum of 15 œ per annum. His last letter mentioned "the sum of œ 7.10.0. being the first half yearly payment in advance up to the 30th of June next has been this day handed to your agent Mr Ch Young of Islington" - "and that a similar sum, also in advance will be paid in the following month of July." Both those sums were received by me, the latter through Mssrs W. Mallalieu & Co.

The payments then became somewhat irregular. They stand in Mr Ch Y's account in the following order:

_________March 67 _____-_____7.10 0
_________Nov. _67 ___________7.10 0
_________Apr.__68 ___________7.10.0
_________Febr _69 ___________7.10.0
_________Jun___69 ___________7.10.0
_________Apr___70 ___________7.10.0

I think it due to the good uncle of Mr James Lechler who has to bear a great deal with the poor young man, to draw your attention to this irregularity. If your accts agree with the above statement would you kindly order the 2d halfyearly payment of the year 1868 to be handed to Mr. Charles Young and at the same time make such arrangements, that the future payments be made statedly in the months of July and Jany.

Should the necessity for James Lechler's support cease one day, you may rely upon my informing you of the alteration, as of course I would rather see the money go abroad for the Lord's work, than serve for the support of one from whom no earthly return can ever be expected.

I do not know whether you look into our (German) Miss[ionar]y literature. Last year I could have wished to see what view your Soc. takes of Dr Wangemanns "Ein Reisejahr in Süd Africa" Berlin 1868. You would find there (f.i.) p. 471-2 strictures on dear old Moffat, who is represented as having well understood to unite Miss. work with commercial undertakings and politics, combination that made him a rich man, then a strong view about the measures taken to drive the Hermannsburgers away from Sahele. If things were misrepresented by the Hermannsburgers, it would not be amiss to correct their statements; I attempted something of the kind by a reference <currence*> to Freeman's tour and the later reports of Moffat junr. 