 1Boll 6 Octo 1870
Good morning dear papa,

and to all good day The night was passabel, from 8 OC when we went to bed till 10 Paul slept tolerably at one he took his dropes and was pretty well till the morning, he even got up for the Breackfast at half past 7 OC At 10 is church so we are ready, he takes every opportunity to hear B. though he suffers more from the head than the last days we were in Calw. We sit at tabel near Mr Betulieus also a Pfarer Meuer or Daurer, Paul liked the preaching, after dinnar we went in the garden where Paul laid on a bane with a pillow under his head, to have got up so early appears however to be too much for him, he feels very tired and more pains.

To dear David special love and best wishes on his birthday, may God reward his diligence by greanting him favour to pass well the expected examination I thank also for attention given to cousin Colin love from me. 
7th Hearty thanks for the letters recieved yesterday evening Please tell Mr Mogling that it would be better if he could visit P in Stut. as we might cross each other on monday, I do not know having not heard from dear Emma, our going depends on the weather and on a room ready for Paul. We shall stay as long as one can, because P. likes to hear Mr B. but I know nothing I shall wait to send this off till I hear from Emma, if you recieve this on sunday morning you have still time to send word to Mögling;

Mr Kelner, Mrs. Blumharts brother from Berlin came yesterday, he goes again today, he asked after you. A Mrs Kur with her daughter cousine of Emelie Seeger are here too, also a Mrs Bosset who brought me salutations from Mrs. Herman who was en...it in her house. We are very sorry to hear that in Liebensel it is not yet better, dear Mr Herman is I suppose very sad, much love and sympathising feelings when you see one of them

8th As no letter as yet from Emma has come I will send off this. You know perhaps more of our future movements then we ourselves, we are to wait and learn. Paul had a long talk with Mr B. in his room, he seemed pleased, however he is still the same in body and spirit, he slept little took dropes twice, We have fire made every day it is too cold to go out and with the daily injections the room ought to be warm, We have happily a nice room so situated that we get the sun the whole afternoon, but now we are getting an other weather the strong wind may bring us rain.

Yesterday came a letter from Marie with the one of Herman here enclosed. She says "We are very happy here. Good old Mrs W does all she can for us and her daughters are so kind and affectionate that we feel quite at home, they have vineyards of their own which of course makes Brackenheim a paradise for Theodor, Since I am here my dreadful tooth ach has nearly left me, I had again a good night." She writes also to Paul.

Mr Betulieus left yesterday, the other peopel we know but little, and remain in our room now that one can not be out in the air

I thank dear Jettle for her kind note please give my love to Dorle K Statfurster, and others who ask after us Emelie with her mother, 
I shall probably no more write from this place exept if we should be obliged to remain a week longer, for want of room in Deaconess home. 
My dear David I think of you and pray our dear Lord who knows all our wants and piculiar circomstances; may He fulfil the petitions of your heart and multiply joy and peace by the Holy spirit.

Paul sends love to all as I also send not forgetting my dear Frederic. Love to ours in America and India.

Pfarer Meurer is not the one who preaches some time in mission feast, this one is a young man in Haimberg or heimthal, between Hall and 

1Lieber Vater, auch einen herzlichen Gruß von mir und Dank für Dein Brieflein. Mit Blumhardt kann ich in manchen Hauptpunkten vollkommen übereinstimmen, obgleich ich in anderem auch auf ihn anwenden muß: alles euer, auch Blumh., ihr Christi. - Bin begierig auf Sicks Behandlungsart, hoffe nur er braucht keine Operationen etc, zu denen hab ich alle Lust verloren. - Dem lieben David meinen herzlichen Gruß und Segenswunsch zum neuen Jahr und Examen, hoffe ihn bald zu sehen. Auch an Jettle Gruß.

 Es küßt Dich
 Dein Paul.
Boll 8. Oct 70
