 Calw 1 May 70
My dear wife

We were very glad to hear on Friday morning that you had arrived so well, you do not say how tired, but I suppose you had enough of it. Also we rejoiced about your news concerning Fritz - May the return be blessed to him and give him a foretaste of the joy that is in heaven when a lost son comes again to his father's house. I suppose he is open enough not to hide or stifle the feeling that he has far strayed aside from the path of life. You will be enabled I trust to put all the case clearly before his eyes. 
You do not mention whether you gave that little parcel to Nathanael Weitbr, but I can hardly think that this was forgotten if you went together in the Droschke.

Mrs Weitbr's son <Herbert>* left us on Friday evening. He was nice with me and seems to be a promising student for God's work.

Yesterday evening the Pfleiderers from Kornthal passed thro' this place, saw esp. Mrs Weitbr and went then to Liebenzell, whilst their house is cleaning.

This Sunday is here the confirmation. next Sunday I shall have to go to Waiblingen for the Mission feast

Werner does not come to our Committee meeting. Perhaps we have none but us three here, in which case I fancy we shall hardly dine together. 
Freddy thinks about the future plans pretty much, but feels he can wait patiently till the Lord shows him what His will is regarding his career. I think he is much better than I ever supposed likely, he can also bear the cold wind without much shivering. We are heating the stoves again pretty regularly.

Nothing as yet from Paul. Mary had a Coffee evening with the young Wöhrles, when it came out that about the 16th Mr Buser intends to come from Bale. That might suit you, if you have done by that time with Switzerland. You can arrange the journey with him when you reach Bale. Carle very nice in day time, the nights still very troublesome. Thodo visited with his Mama the Rosers, saw some pancake placed somewhere … l'abri and asked for it; went then with Mary to the Roos and got a handful of Zwetschgen from a basket filled with them, when going he begged that the basket be also given to him, when its contents were transferred to his pockets. In the garden we had some ice! - Mary found Grandmama poorly the Dr's send her and Tante Reiniger to the Wildbad, but I do not know when this is to be. Peregrina is now invited by Zellers <Mannedorf>* to come to them, we hope her Mama who had already given up the idea will now yield and let her go, especially as she herself has a mind for it. - We all wish Uranie to settle down quietly into a sort of widow's rest. Perhaps she might also try Wildbad and be with Mrs. Mörike in Werner's place or at least near it.

Farewell for the present and may the good Lord give you a happy time with all the brethren and sisters you are to meet. Our love to Uranie Fritz Marie Monnard, her friend etc
 Yours
 H Gdt
