 <2 Nov 70>1
 <R 4 crt>*
My dear Frederle

Many thanks for writing so faithfully and diligently. I wish I could give you your fesperle; but I dare say if you would tell dear Mrs Hager she would give you some bread and wine. I am at least glad that you have a good dinner and I trust the Lord will so help and strengthen you that it will not hurt you to sleep with some one in one room.

I am very sad to have no good news from dear Paul I trust to see him next sunday. Tell us all about dear Mrs. Hoch and her family also about her Aunt my good friend Miss Wasser who lives with her. Relate us also about the dear Busser. Mrs. Steiger was astonished to hear that we had already three letters from you, her son writes seldom. Dear son please send this letter to her adress, I shall return you the centimes <das Comptoir solls für mich zahlen>1 you have to put upon it. We have incessant rain, the Nagold had already last night began to overflow, the Seeger had to remove the things out of their celler. The children were full of joy, but happily it did not come too far on the road, at least I saw nothing of it.

Wednesday to day came your fourth enclosed in one to Mr Weitbrecht Many thanks for it, I concluded that you were not well after your first from Bale, you say in it that you do not feel quite well. Now I am very glad to hear that you are trotz not withstanding the uncomfortable room and other little disappointments, I am glad that you are pleased with your work and do not find it to be too much.

Adieu dear Son
 your J. G.
