 Calw 11 Mai 70
My dear wife

After I had written you on Monday I saw Pfleiderer coming from India with wife and 7 children, then Isenbergs Mrs Süskind, Grosmama, Inspector etc. On Tuesday conference with the brethren to whom Insp related every thing that concerned the Mission. In the evening back. I got a letter from Marie, but found no time for sending it to you from Stuttg so it comes now, probably too late for the Busers, but perhaps you do not care, because you are so opposed to 2d class travelling. I suppose you will get on well with what I wrote for you, and if you feel tired rather go first than 3d class! 
Paul writes as if he was better in body, but not in the ear, that seems still deaf, but he will do nothing for it in a hurry. He preaches again next Sunday. I believe on the whole he is pretty well. - Sam saw many people, will also go and visit them. has been on the Doddabett and in Ooty, thinks Bührer is less to blame than Metz, who cannot well agree with Bührer on account of the Cockburns etc. Whilst he was up there Wenger's child died. He had then to go instead of Wenger and bring Mrs Kaundinya up from Coimbatur to Kotergherry as she wants a change. Poor woman! I hear her husband is so involved that he will have to sell all! Mögling and Albrechts lose some money thereby.

Fred. I found somewhat anxious about his future work. Adolf thought of something for him, but he would prefer Bale. Insp. said there was a place open for a Spediteur, but the man ought to be very active and therefore well. Perhaps you might talk over the matter a little with Mr Müller the Cassier, and if he thinks a trial might be made, Fr would rather soon commence. But all this not as if there was any hurry in settling the matter. 
Herm. is very glad that his business of the school is over for half a year. No especial news. You read it when you come.

Here putzen und ipsen or white washing plenty business! I hope it will be finished when you come. I walked today with Mr Grill, Fred. and Emily. Our Verein stands well enough. Adolph and Anna quite happy at present, which cheered me much. Also Caroline is nicely. I think it possible that Plebst may be agent or what shall I call it of the Junglingsverein at Stuttgart. He and Emma are now a great comfort to Grosmama. From David many hearty greetings, he is sorry that so many young men who started well go backwards instead of forwards. Stkpf is well pleased with him, also Plebst who instructs him in Geometry.

Now goodbye and may the Lord bring you safely back at the right time and in the best way!
 Yours H. G.
