 Calw 28 Apr 70
My dear

Today I was at Stammh. examining the children and sitting in Committee, am therefore now pretty much tired. On Tuesday we thought often of you, I fancey you must have been pretty well tired when arriving at Corcelles. Also misgivings came up suppose there was no one ready at Bale to receive you etc but with all that I hope my letters reach you with more regularity than those of Theodor from Barmen reached their addressee. Two arrived after your departure.

I hope he did every thing properly as became a Kirchmeister accompanying a Missionary's wife. In Stammh I found Nath Deck. very well. Miss Mathild had been confirmed, and George had come for the occasion. Marie saw the Prices just now from Engld on their way to India. They are very fond of Davidson and praise him, whilst they think Peregr ought never to have married. Mary found Per. very quiet and somewhat shy; Mrs Isbg rather happy, at times with headache. Grosmama is to come to the Wildbad, one fears dropsy in the end. Albert was touched when talkg of Charles, but very soft about himself. Adolf seems to wish for Fred. again and wants to make him a good offer when the time comes. Widmann has a cold so he came to Stammh in a carriage only for the afternoon. Mrs Daur was very friendly to Mary and very open with her, so also the Staudts. She visited the Kirchhof. Carle often said "Mama" during her absence, but behaved miserably during the nights. Thodo well enough. Mrs. Weitbr is not well, keeps the bed. Her son Herbert visited me and talked. A woman Reinhardt was long with Jette, telling her story. We all wish soon to hear from you and hope tomorrow's post may bring something. Evidently letters run less quick than persons! Just I hear that Mrs Weitbr came up to pay us a visit, it is 8 PM so I will conclude and wish you God's blessing. Our love to Uranie. Greet Fritz if he is there. With old love Your
 Strohwittwer
 H Gundert
