 Stutgart Monday 7th <Nov 70>*
Dear papa

I was glad in coming to Paul to find a letter from you. I came some what late, for the rules are now to be kept strickt about visiting the peopel here, Mornings from 10 to 12, afternoon from one to four or three, 
Emma went this morning to Laufen, shall return on thursday, with Georg who is to day in Heilbroon, As long as she is away I remain here to visit dear Paul after her return I shall D.V come home. I found P. nicely the night was not good had to use the bad schüssel often. the old lavements are working little at a time; but pretty often, he had not much fever, drunk often champagne kept also the rice soop he ate in the evening. the pains are less than they were and he is pretty chearful.

This morning I visited Mrs. Director S she was still in bed, though she feels herself very nicely she will write to dear Jettle sending her a letter from America

Tate Emma is occupied with a wash Gross Mama in Olga Street to day. Adolph and Anna were by Grand Mama yesterday evening. Caroline has schleimfever in bed of course. I have not yet been there; for till now I did not observe the rules of the house came early and left late the evening. but in future they are to be observed, when I excused myself one ansewred for you one makes exception, however I see that it is better, and as dear Paul is somewhat better it does not matter.

I have not spoken with the Dr about removing Paul. first he is too weak now, his stomach cannot bear some exertion. he is always in bed. and is contented to wait here till one sees how it goes farther, he sends love to all and thanks for the letter, If he continues to be pretty well I shall not write tomorrow I have just seen the Minister and excused myself for having done against the rules, Paul oposed himself to them but the Minister explained him why they must be observed specially were tow sick peopel are in one room, P drinks every day one shoppen champagne till now he had from Mama and tante Emilie G gave me now 2 shoppen Mrs Schwarz has also sent two shoppen so that he has for four days perhaps the wine helps him for his bowels that he now without lavement can go out, He was rather cross with the minister who spoke of courage, faith, and it is easy to talk when strength is there, he liked your letter much.

 Love to all
 Adieu yours J. G
