 Calw 4 Mai 70
My dear wife

Today we had the Committee sitting, only Meßner beside us 3. We had done before 12 o'clock, and dined then together. Yesterday evening the Grills were here for tea, when she sang to the piano very nicely. - Mrs Schauffler at Bulach died on the 2d by an apoplectic stroke her daughter was to marry on the 5th, now we shall have on that day the burial of the mother. My friend Gauss passed just now thro'.

Fred. prays now every morning, helps me now in the money matters connected with the accounts of the Verein. Paul asks after you wants letters from Fr. and M. "I see indeed how much could be done by looking into the wants of others. I require indeed when once firmly grounded on the word and in the faith, to exercise love. Also Beck's example shows me this, for it seems to me awful, how unevangelically a man that is so at home in the bible can judge and blame others. Lately he condemned Hebich and the Schaffhauser people. But I could not help feeling that he would be the better for having only half of Heb's love for souls and of his kindness. - Oehler is to speak to us about the views of Luther etc regarding Missions. - As I felt still deaf on my right ear I consulted the doctor, when he ordered to put a leech to it. That annoyed me by afterwards bleeding during the whole night, so I wait and see what the summer will do. Had also toothache and required strong injections. Still I shall preach at Ohnstetten, whither Miss Ziegler will accompany me.

How are you dear Sister (Mary)? Is the little one still so unruly (a little better at night). I am much with you in my thoughts and ask the Lord to give you a cheerful heart and faith in the substance of what is hoped, not seen. That soothes homesickness and grief, just because we have in it already the chief matter of what we long for." So far Paul.

I hope you are getting on well with your dear people, and may grace help them all forward. You know that Jette was with Schill and found her pretty well and very nice in spirit. All here salute you. Emily was also here with the Grills which rejoiced her much. The evening passed off nicely. The Lord be with us all. Sunday till Tuesday I shall spend at Waibling and Stuttgart D. V. With a kiss
 Your H G.
