 Sunday evening 7 o clock <etwa 1/ Marz 70>*
Dearest Marie

We have just recieved your letter for which many thanks. I can give a good report of your two pets. On friday the little one seemed to miss you, slept at night as usual, the next morning as I entered the room I found Theodor in Rickeles bed where he had spent half night, so we took him in our bedroom this night at two he evidently thought he was still by Rickele said "he will by dir commen", but as he found he was near my bed remained very quietly and slept till 6 O. Carl who had slept but one hour in day time slept well till midnight. to day he has been most time with me exceedingly brave and lieb, the two girls went to church, <Ich predigte>1 afternoon they payd visits two hours during which time Carl was very good with me; It is so cold that I do not let him go out, Theodor was this afternoon with Georg Zahn Carl Sheffel is again unwell. From Jettle we have not heard <Du sprichst von Wildbad? Wohl Weil!>1

I hope that Paul is with you today love to dear David and to all in your house, Tell dear Mrs Isenberg how much grieved I feel for her in all her trials give her special love

When Teodor percieved that you had gone he cried, I then said because he had been naughty with you he got then comforted and since had said often to me gelt ich been lieb Mama wird bald commen, he is indeed very nice and obedient.

Rickle wishes one pound of blue cotton she will repay you afterward. About returning you must not be in a hurry, if you have to stay there longer, we shall soon wash without you at least if Jettle can come. Our wash is thursday and friday Thursday afternoon we begin D V.

Carl has slept two hours after dinnar he is still playing now 
Now I conclude with hearty kiss Theodor has of course written you a letter sealed it and believes that it will be sent to you, in it he said that he had been with Gerorg was very lieb, sends kisses etc says gelt diese nacht ich comme in dein bed

Adieu dearest Marie
 Yours J G

love to Jettle

1Ich hatte viel Geschäft, 1/2 Bogen für Miss Mag zu liefern in der Eile und heute morgen Predigt. Auf Dich wartet eine amtliche Anfrage wegen Vermögen, Pfleger etc. Schuldt wartet damit, wie er auf mein Ersuchen sagte, bis Du wieder da bist. Wann Du kommen wirst, konnte ich nicht sagen, deutete an, etwa Dienstg oder Mittw. Aber machs wie Du fürs Beste findest. Sch sagt, er könne noch 8 Tage warten. Taufscheine der Kinder werden auch gewünscht. 
Nun mit Kuß
 Adieu Dein V.
