<ad 144>* Bremen 25 May 76
 <via Calw 29. May 76 (erh. 15. Juny)>*
My dear wife

For once I must also write a letter just to say that all goes well and that we enjoy ourselves among the good people into whose hands we are fallen. My intention is now to leave Friday night 10 o'clock which brings me as far as I can see Saturday 6 o'clock PM to Calw. I might reach a little earlier by way of Zuffenhausen but it seems hardly worth while. Depend for the present on Schott's movements who wants to see his son at Liebenzell, and if he goes my way I stick to him. The 2 Basler left Saturday reached Cassel in the evening, slept there, went to Hannover Sunday, slept again and thus came to Bremen Monday A.M. but Schott did this on account of preceding illness and finds himself now stronger.

Fritz Vietor has been ill for 2 months and when he has done entertaining us at his sommerhouse will probably go to Reichenhall. He is stiffnecked, that is has a tumour in the neck which prevents his moving freely and seems to puzzle the Dr's. feels better now with less pain, but is hardly relieved from the complaint, has no appetite though no fever. Sends love also to Widm. from whom I can bring no greeting to Mother Noltenius as she lives at Blumenthal. Mrs Vietor rather grey, cares exceedingly for us all whilst at their summerhouse. Yesterday evening ladies and brethren were invited to be there and listen to some speeches. Rain interrupted, the benches were carried into the hall and afterwds out again when it had cleared. Dr Schreiber from Sumatra spoke particularly well, he is now in Warneck's place at Barmen. He knew Ch Isenbg at Islington and is warmhearted - Dined at Fritz Chevalier's he has a nice dear wife, though already grey locked - Saw Mrs Kittel who is in the Dr's hand and looks not very bright. Her husbd in Eastfriesland with the boy 2 years old. See repeatedly Br. and S. Illg, back from Africa with their child and good news on the whole. I was asked by Funke to preach for him this morning, but declined, he seems the most popular man here and is hearty with the brethren and esteemed by the opposite party. Of David I heard but little mention, R Vietor the pastor remembers him however with love. D himself sent a card this morning which I enclose. He may send back the Ind. letters for answering next week, so I will despatch them to him.

Mrs Schlunk seems very happy with her children, they are lovingly together. He is not quite well, has a real complaint, that seems to make him thin and looking emaciate. He gained last year 25000 Thaler but that was the first really good year after much waiting and some anxiety. Mrs Schl wishes much to be remembered to you all. Now good bye old and young altogether too many to be named and may dear Uranie feel pretty well at home

I am glad to come back soon and hope to find you all happy
 yours HG
