Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, Neilgherries, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich 27/8 Febr 48
 <Sund/Monday>*
My dear wife

I thank you for your last, in which you try to give me an exact statement of your health. I am of course in a strait betwixt the two I wish to have you here and I wish you to be well. If therefore there be no prospect of having you here well I can desire your profiting longer of the sojourn on the hills. If on the other hand you are not getting better there I have occasionally a feeling as if you might be not the worse for returning to Tellicherry. But as the matter concerns myself so very closely I hesitate about a decision. Nor can I leave it very quietly in your own hands: for I believe that with your nervousness you may deceive yourself on your state of health and future prospects one way or the other. Of one thing I am sure to send Frederick up will not enter into my head: 1.) on account of the inconvenience to your hosts. They feel for you and invite gladly, but have no children and can not imagine how troublesome a child may prove to them, whilst its dentition is going on. 2.) on account of the child. He is no Christiane, but requires great care, having hitherto been nursed nearly exclusively by Miss K. (but never mention such things to her, it makes her very ill tempered to be thanked or pitied) - how will a native be able to tender him on the way. 3.) If I should be obliged to go with him there would be the double journey which requires money up and down. (say 50 up and 50 down for the child only.) - Of your health and bodily feelings you gave me a pretty full account but you have not spoken of your mind. You may be longing after the child, may be somewhat - how shall I say - wearied with those that surround you: you may be nervous about the consequences of your return to me, uneasy about entering again our full house. On all these subjects you do never express yourself once only I heard by others, that some thought it necessary I should come up to you for a visit - why? I could never make out. I have it now in my mind, as I see that you never explain yourself freely in a letter, to charge Mögling with speaking to you especially on the subject of your return, and if he has time to consider the matter well with you I will D. V. (that is if God put nothing better into my head) abide by the advice he may give.

I was this weak in Vadag. Thomas wished to accompany me to a native festival, but he was on the way laid up with the measles and lies now in Coilandy. - This evening I returned from Anjercandy. Frederick had gone out to meet me on the way but as I came late, he was already at home again and jumped up on the arm of Miss K. as he saw me coming from afar. It is always a great loss to him to have me not at home: he likes to infest my room several times a day to crawl about make noise with every thing metallic he finds, and to be carried a little to the pictures. I think you will remember this day a year and 2 years ago 28 Febr 46 in Stuttg 28 Febr 47 again at Tellicherry. Yet a week and the little fellow is a year old. He has now 6 teeth above and 3 below. Christine at Chombala asks often after you she is expecting a child in a few months. We are all very well just now thank God. The last letters from home will have given you joy and grief. May the Lord sanctify both to us! Irion's Wilhelm is drinking mother- and cow's milk. as if nothing was sufficient for him. The little box for Mr M. stands packed. Have you received your gown from Mrs Lascelles? With love to all  Yours H Gdt

