Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich. 30 March 48
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

The meaning of ______ etc is, o rogue pray in the proper good time ________ is a goldpiece = 15 Rs ______________= ____________ to bring into one's power, charm, conquer -

The sickness in Cann is the measles, with us a light kind of smallpox. 
Irion has been in Cal and brought good news of Mrs Fritz. She is rapidly recovering; Mrs Huber on the whole not worse. The vent is surely not malsaint, but perhaps malsain - of course I do also not know if he is a good Saint. I should like to hear what number of colds you have collected during your stay on the hills. Every letter seems to contain one, and still you keep some for yourself. - People ask what caste age etc is the little girl you are to bring down. - How mistaken you are to compare Fr. with Samuel! He is the very contrary, rather betw Marie and the first Frederick, exceedingly quick, uncautious, irritable, but happily now strong in body and well kept under in mind. He will give us trouble, but we may hope also for joy: he is clever insinuating exceedingly desirous of love, yet not (particularly) envious. More of your physionomy than any of our boys. Just now I have the preparation for the Lord's supper, which this time began early in the week and is going slowly on. I praise the goodness of God for having given me a new proof of his love towards us by preparing first my own heart and drawing several others mightily on towards His holy supper. The girls have at least learned to watch and judge a little their own hearts. They are slow to speak out what may oppress them, but at least they are not cunning, as some of the married women. With them I can do very little: their husbands in part confirm them in a certain humble selfrighteousness. Many lament over the want of watchfulness since their first repentance, few have gone on steadily growing. Of them Thomas stands preeminent, he is often tried by his wife Havah a stupid sort of wellinclined Mogayar woman. Joseph is not growing, therefore it must be decreasing. I have advised him for once to keep away from the communion, lest it be thought, as Catechist he is sure of it.

We are thinking of quitting the Vadagara outstation for a place better situated if we can manage it. - In Cannanore I have greatly disturbed it seems the Wesleyans there (in the new regiment) I once preached on the 4th psalm, and spoke of course also of election: though to counteract it. I prayed expressly to God Saviour of all men, esp the believers, and for all men etc. Now they have all left Hebich, because he holds election, saying that I am yet worse than Hebich! This is the first time that I have offended people with my Calvinism. Truly it is a hard thing to be preacher to such English congregations as have already all doctrines at their fingers' ends. 
Frederick suffers somewhat from prickly heat: I begin to feel also that we are drawing near April: and I can already imagine to hear you complaining Ah qu'il fait chaud! Never mind, one day it will be cooler than we could ever imagine, and not cold either. Meantime prepare yourself - or better may God prepare you for bearing anew the heat of your day - suppose the noon is over - it will be all cooler in the evening.

When I hear the day of your coming I will try to meet you at Calicut, though I better do not promise it, lest there be a disappointment. Whether you will find me grown, is doubtful, but Frederick certainly has increased every way. Now farewell and greet the friends.
 Yours affly
 H Gundert.

