 Kotagherry Januar 22 <1848>*
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa

M. W has not sold his horse, he has only lent it to Mr Cockburn who will let him have it whenever* he wants it, so that W. has no expense as long as he does not want his horse.

Mrs. W has sold her own to Moerike. Buhler is here, to build the house. I seems that none of them will sign the letter home. Buhler is not in good termes with the Inspecteur it seems, at least, he has not written him since may or june. W. is rather cast down says he to his wife, but he is often so. If the Comity does not permit Mogling to go home Mr Anderson and some one else will pay his passage home. Some one say that he goes home chiefly to enduce the Prince who pays the expense of the Institution, to give the whole fond to him now and with that Money he will buy lands which shall keep the Institution. In hearing that Lehner had got two thousands Rps by the rent of an house at Dahwar; Amon sayd to Gre. that he had some thousands Rps at home, that he would buy an house too with that money and let it in order to get some goods for his child here what do you say of this? The letter of Moglin about Children, is, it seems to me not "detaill‚e" enough; though Buhler says He could well sign it; but has at present nothing to do with others petitions since Weigle has written himself to the C. Yet Buhler and Moerike did not sign the letter of W. to the Comity. I am Glad to be a woman and so to have nothing to say. for as man I would had many things to this last about children.

I hope I shall not go to the Lascelles. He has again a querelle with his nephew George Cockburn who was mediator between him and Cpt Pope. Cockburn had the charge to settle the different between L. and P. about some lands. Cockburn settled it so that they were at peace; but after some time during the absence of Cock. Lascelles had a road made round his compound and he encrouched a piece of land on Cpt P. Cockburn reprouved him for it; though it is but a small bit L will not give it back, though he had first agreed on the bounderies. Well after many discutions* they have laid the business before the suppreme Court at Madras. He does not see nor speak with his eldest son; because he did not settle a money business according to his wishes with a East Indian who ough him monney. And they say that Mrs L. is so miserable through all this business that she will be obliged to go to England. Poor L to hear him pray and speak of free salvation and to have such a conduct it is truly a scandale.

Many thanks for all the news about you all. I did not believe the report of Irion going to M<angalore>* but I wanted to see what you sai about it. It is now settled that W. will go at M. during his <Mögl's>* visit at home. Huber seems to be the same man as ever, at least to ju<d>*ge of a few lines he wrote in sending the letter regarding children. With my love to all and from all
 Yours aff J Gundert

