Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, Neilgherries, via Calicut, pd

 Tell. 21 March 48
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Many thanks for yours of the 16, which I received today along with the steamletters. - Yes indeed Fr is very quiet. Thanks to the Lord you will rejoice to see him against all expection so well in body and soul. - You will surely unite with me in thanking the Lord for rendering M<öglings>*'s plan abortive. To me it always had an undescribable admixture of the principle <">*Aide toi mˆme et le ciel t'aidera<">*: which is the rule of the natural man. I know he meant to devote himself to the service of Christ and his members, but I never could from the heart rejoice at his resolution. Ostertag writes to me that the Committee has no idea of receding from any station, that China costs only 4800 (not 10000) Africa only 19000 (not 30000) that no school etc needs to be given up, that the Comm meant not to command, knowing that we had a Saldo during the spending of which 3-4 letters might be exchanged setting all matters aright. In short - the Comm. seems determined to keep up the whole Mission as well as they can. - Kern writes of Herm. Anandr. "he is the first of his class if not in knowledge of every kind, at least in real cultivation of mind and feeling. "But what a dangerous thing to let a Hindu look thus into the Home-Mission-Kitchen. Let every one beware before he try to repeat the feat!" - About Marie good news but not more than Pauline wrote except, that she is very devout and obedient to the elder girls and has no idea of trying to rule them. Her ear flows still. I do not like to send you my father's letter, on account of the references to the gracious visitation which we had of the Lord's spirit. He adds: "and now be heartily greeted by this new year, thou dear sufferer Julie whom the Lord during 47 has taken in his peculiar school to learn how to rely entirely on Him, on Him only that you may fully experience the grace and tendermercy of his fatherheart. With great joy did we read your letter and trans late it to your dear chickens. They are dearly beloved children, esp. Chr. Today Herm. complained of headache and did not go to school. When he laid his head on the sopha Chr came and stroked his cheeks and sings him asleep: either "Jesu geh voran" or "Vögelein singt" or does she call "thou dear Hemann Du! Marie gave her great joy with the stocking bands she had knit, and the letter accompanying. She keeps it and shows it to visitors. The boys pray regularly for father and mother, do their work before they go playing. H. is the 8th S. the 10th in school both have good testimonies. My dear Emily charges me with the all-heartiest salutations if she knew only Engl and Fr she should like much to answer in person. Grandmama M. adds the most friendly words. In Essl. both Selma and GMama Enslin suffering this house be recommended to your earnest intercession!" So we have now again received a month's news and may thank the Lord for the same. His name be praised! Oh how good he is unto us who distrust him in so many ways. Give with us thanks that the Committee has so far yielded. Take care of the cultivation of good feelings towards all brethren and sisters - and let us beware of all partiality. Dear Hagar is comforted very much. I was rather afraid of the spread of smallpox from which her husband died but God has preserved us wonderfully. Tomorrow I shall again have to visit Chomb and Vadag. where I have not been for 3 weeks. CM. has bought a boat for them at Chomb. to commence fishing on their own account. 
Whether you bring cake or honey, to me it is all the same. The arrowroot to the Weigle's is a present of mine: it is only to let you know. Don't fear to come down empty handed you are still received gladly. May the Lord uphold soul and body and establish the work of our hands.
 Yours
 HGdt

