Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing

 Kotagarry 23 Mars <48>*
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa.

What is the meaning of __________________________________________________ and of ______________________

Bien oblig‚ pour ta lettre du 16me. Frederich aura sans doute ‚t‚ bien r‚joui de te revoir. Quelle maladie est … Cannanore que les enfans y meurent en si grand nombre? Samedi nous attendons ici Mrs Mogling et Moerike. j'apprendrai de lui je pense a quel temps il pense … quitter les collines; Comme probablement il ira … Tellicherry; tu ne te donneras pas la peine de venir jusqu'… Calicut; j'espŠre que le chemin par mer sera encore pratiquable et que nous pourrons prendre un bateau de C. … T.

Depuis quelques temps soeur Greiner a d'assez mauvaises nouvelles de son Mari; Il a de violents maux de reins, de tems … autre des ‚vanouissements. Il parait surtout souffrir beaucoup des h‚morrhoides; Sophie Buhler est aussi d‚licate et faible;

Nous pensons souvent aux amis Huber; Le vent parait ˆtre partout malsaint; ici apeu prŠs tout le monde se plaint de coup de froid. J'en ai un ces jours ci trŠs s‚vere; sous ce rapport, j'avoue que j'espŠre que je serai mieux … Tellichery qu'ici. A l'exception de ce coup de froid je suis grƒce Dieu joliment, et j'aime bien mes petites occupations "d'house keeping and looking about." I have in my room the little girl I intend to take down to T. In a few days we shall move from Mount Pleasant to Goarehouse which is nearly finished at last!

Poor Wests! She seems to be always without money; for she has been asking the rent of her house before the time. I am glad for her that at our departure of this house, a Gentleman is to take it for a few month. She would do better to go to her husband and live her children under propre cares. If he wants so much to go to China why not go; he may learn a lesson which he refuses to hear here.

My love to all, Kisses to Frederich. Mogling says, that F. is very much like Samuel.
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert

Bertah Albrech writes to Sophie B. that her child is very poorly. he has had no good time since he is born.

The Gentleman who would come to this house will not come, he finds it too windy. Indeed it is so, and I had the worse room; so I am glad we are to leave it on Monday.

