Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich. 31 Jan 48
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

I have been rather long in answering your last letter, but thought you were still digesting the home letters and therefore less in want of a quick succession of news. You will have heard since of many particulars concerning the state of our Mission. It is truly God's doing that the Committee and we are now alike in distress, and God will surely bring honour to His name out of this trouble. May we keep our hearts in His peace and not load ourselves with the plagues of other days, but think the evil of to day sufficient for us!

What you say of the Lascelles does not astonish me, any more than what we may still more hear of them. I fear that God has given him over to his own ways, so that he is really pleased with them and sees no fault. And his wife I fear is always learning and never coming to the knowledge of the truth, always excited and anxious about something, but never thankful and content with God's mercies. Therefore I counsel you, who are still a sufferer, do not have much to do with them. - We have this week I hope the marriage of Noah and his wife <Hagar>*, delayed for a while by Mrs I's confinement. The brother of Micha <Mannen>* and his wife (Simon Maria) were baptized last week. We have joy in them. When he came in to see us, he met Joseph and Cornelius on the road whom he had never seen before and gave them his hand. They asked who are you and whence? he told it and on their astonished question how he came to know them, said - he did not know but he felt at once on seeing them that these are brethren. - A Tamil girl that came some months ago has gone back to her parents. But Anna gained a great victory in the Lord, for her mother now married to a Rom. Cath. soldier came 8 days ago to take her away and have her married to an other Soldier, all going together to Madras; and as she will no more return A. was on the point of going with her, but after all was frightened to become lost in the ways of her mother and preferred to stay in the school. The mother tried all in vain, cursed her at length and went away. A. wept much but is getting comforted. - The Lord is also gracious to Frederick in his teething; he gets stronger and a little more quiet. I's little baby and his mother are doing well. The Lord be with you all
With love from us to all yours
 HG.

