Rev. H Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Kotagherry 2 Jan 48
 <Sunday>*
Dear papa.

Thanks for your last of the 24th I am sorry Lehner did agree so little with Hbich but if others had spoken their mind they would have spoken like Leh. for it has been reported here that H. had a service of three hours, one of prayers, one of preaching without a text one with a text. He related the confessions which had been made to him by some of his people. this did offend many so much so that Metz was on the point of leaving the Chappel. Yet I hope that it has done some good, for Elisa has since fonfessed her sins to Greiner. You know that she had denied what had been said of her at Tellicherry.

I am glad of the good news about Calicut. Tell me how Miss. Isabella, Uranie, Agar and others are going on? Is there any thing new in Susana and Paker? How are Marck and Milca? Has nothing come out of Louisa? 
Nous avons ici un jeune officier Makenzee; nouveau converti, il vient de Trichnapoli Il est possible que son regiment ira … Cannanore. Je serai bien aise pour lui qu'il fut prŠs d'H. Il est ici pour quelques mois; Il est bien interessant; encore dans le premier amour; sans beaucoup de connaissance.

On no account would I wish to be yet in Europe; as for the climat I suffer so much from the cold here; that it is enough to make me thankful not to be obliged to live in Europe. And to have Frederich out is surely a benefit; which likely could not have been, if he had been born in Europe. 
Buhler and Moerike have gone to Katary Moe. continues to be well, nearly without pain. Buhler so so, he spends many hours with Casamajor. Major Muller was considered here as a three quarter Plimoothien; for sometimes many of them did not go to Church; but Groves told them that they might well go so from that time some went.

You have not told me if a parcel which I sent from here to Marie has arrived; it was a gown and a scuff of silk green. But I hope I shall soon hear from herself. Is it any thing with Mrs. Müller I mean hope "de famille"? Have you heard any thing about Bertha? Here things begin to be quiet about Comity's affairs; only about Children it goes on; Huber has been writing on this subject, I wonder at it; for he better wait; And Can one do nothing with his propre money I mean with private money. Surely it is more than any of us require; that which is given. I thank God that those money business do not touch me at all. He who has greanted us the favour to preach his Gospel which is the power of God to salvation will also provide as much as necessary; and though we should not have just all what we wish; what is that We shall never be as Paul in hunger, nakedness, wants, If we had to learn a little of this for Christ's sake surely it would be an honour

Mrs Greiner wanted to write a letter to Mrs Irion; but Mr Weigle wants to send now to the post so she has no time at present.
My love to all kisses to F.
 Yours afftly
 J Gundert

Please to write on your letters via Calicut; for it seems that they go by Mysoor since they are always 6 or 7 days in the way and the ones of Mrs Greiner are but 5 days

