Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Kotagherry 7th April 48
 <Saturday>*
Dear papa.

Many thanks for yours of the 30th and all the news, How many colds I have had, I do not know exactly 12 or eighteen; but I hope they will soon be at en end. The little girl I have is of course a Tamil child; but rather nice of 8 or 9 years. One day as she was playing rather loud with Herman G.<reiner?>* and the baby was assleep in my room I send her out saying it was too much noise. then she went out in a corner, and after two or three houres I went out and found her weeping bitterly; I not remembering what had passed asked her what was the matter; "Ah you have sent me off what shall I do I have no muther at least I do not know where she is, you have kept me one month and one day and now you send me away what shall I become"? She is very anxious to come to Telli. and she learns already obedience with Master Herman who makes himself a great man.

Mr Moglin has told me that Frederich was the very picture of Samuel, now you must know better. Is the smallpox at en end. Thank God that it has not been bad till now.

Wether I shall find you grown in body I do not mind it, if you are well of what I rejoice is that I shall find you happy in the Lord grown in him. Decreese in ourselves and grow in him is our best, and every thing which brings us to this is to be welcome: though hard to the flesh. I hope that the people who have been displeased at Cannanore shall soon learn to take the whole word of God, let us only pray.

Have I told you that Arthour Lascelles is to marry Miss Browning the daughter of Mrs Machelpin, he is 19 and she 18. the mother is against it as the girl was thought pious too as her mother; but this is again a work of Mrs. L. He has gone to Honnor, and Franck the eldest son is to go home to study Low.

I do not know any thing as yet about the time of our going down; perhaps Mog. writes to you. Do not try to come to Calicut except you want to go for business, if it is so hot; keep as quiet as you can without robbin your work. We shall come well I hope at Tellicherry. How curious it will be to me. I feel the want to keep quiet and in peace in the Lord in order not to be exited by it.

Je ne sais pas si Mr W. poura me prˆter de l'argent pour retourner … T. He has thoughtlessless given his money to Cap Munchin to keep it. He has lent it out and does not send them what he had promised every month, And as the bilding cost good deal we are without a pice

If you answer this after the 15th Please to address it at Otacamund it may be I sall be there about the 18th in order to see about the Coolies to go down. As perhap we may leave Ot the 24 or 25 Mogling will yet come once over to see Mr Grei. and then I shall know.

My love to all. Kisses to Baby.
 Yours aff J. Gundert.

Poor Sister Gr is not well we are afraid she gets dyssentry. I wish Mr W be here.

