 <Ca 27-30/7 48>*

You have done us the honour to ask for our opinion on the subject of a new edition of the Mal Bible in one volume. We have lost no time in giving our best consideration to the questions proposed and are enabled to give you a common answer. As we are not acquainted with the number of copies which remain for circulation in the Depository, we can hardly venture to give an answer to the query wether we think the Committee justified in undertaking so large a work at the present time. We think however, that if the stock is running short, a second edition in small print, would be very adviseable even in a pecuniary point of view.

As for the other question we do not believe that a large demand for scriptures will exist in the province of Malabar for some time to come. There are but a few small Congregations at Calicut Tellicherry and Cannanore each with one or two outstations. The Roman Catholics are more averse to scripture reading than ever before: it is only some months ago that the Italian bishop has forced even the educated portion of several parishes to give up their English Portuguese etc bibles to be burnt. And to give the entire Scriptures to Heathens would appear to us mere waste; we doubt at least if more than a dozen copies could be sold in any station even to others than Christians at the lowest prices. There may exist a much greater demand in the kingdom of Cochin and Travancore, we <are no judges> confine our remarks to the British province.

In your 3d question you ask if we have any suggestions to make for a new edition. To this we would answer that a new edition whether printed immediately, or prepared at leisure, ought to be first subjected to revision. Not as if we had not all reason to be thankful for possessing the Scriptures in an intelligible and nicely printed version, one which we gladly acknowledge can bear the comparison with any other first translation. Yet it would appear that the activity exhibited in the revision of the Tamil and Canarese versions contrasts strongly with the silence that has obtained on this subject in the Malayalam Bible question. The N.T. in its various editions bears indeed the marks of several examinations and corrections. But the old Testament especially in its more difficult portions seems to have been subjected to little scrutiny, and was in some parts at least hardly compared with the Hebrew original (if we may judge f.i. from the way in which even the name Jehovah has been rendered in different books. In the Lamentations it is always Lord). We do not recollect that during the 9 years that our Miss[ionar]y Society has laboured in Malabar, any trial has been made of the aid which its labourers might contribute to a matter of such importance to their 1




2The Revd. Dr. H. Gundert, Tellicherry

 Bible Society's Rooms.
 Madras 24th July 1848.
The Revd. Dr. Gundert, Tellicherry.

My dear Sir

It has been proposed to the Committee of the M. A. Bible Society, to Print the whole of the Malayalim Scriptures in one Vol: double columns and small Print, the Committee before acting on this suggestion are anxious to know, what is the opinion of the Missionaries respecting this proposal. 
Will you kindly give the Committee your opinion on this subject, do you think there would be a large demand for the Scriptures published in this form? do you think the Committee justified in undertaking so large a work, at the present time? have you any suggestions to make with reference to this new Edition of the Malayalim Scriptures in the event of its being published?

Hoping soon to hear from you, and wishing you abundant success in your labours.

 I am my dear Sir
 Your's truly
 W. Voster*
 Secy M. A. Bible Society

