Mrs Gundert

 <16 Apr. 48.>*
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Your letter of the 7th I received today the 16th, bearing a third postmark Mangalore. This must the fault of your Kotagherry post clerk. 
Now lest I forget it I will begin with begging you for Mrs C Müller to bring down Salep. for young Brennen's use. Also Mrs Irion should like I think to try it with her babies. At last it might even do for Frederick and so if you can get it, try to have a supply with you. But if you cannot you will be received even without it, both in the Fort and on the hill. If you had expressed a wish for it I might have sent to you money in paper via* Madras. But as I do not know if you can cash it I leave it to Mglg to get the Rs in the best way he can. In fact I do not see why you want money for travellg with him. As I have a small banknote with which there is less risk I enclose it to you. But try to cash it on the hills immediately through the postmaster or another friend.

I heard from M. you are to leave on Easter monday <17 April>*. So it may be we meet again the first of May, the day which we separated at Sispara. May God drive all elephants bodily and ghostly out of your way!

The sickness here is not altogether over, but very confined. Milca had a daughter whilst I was at Anjerc. In Mahe I saw the Governor again the first time since you left. They are mad for joy about their republic. He changed the colours without waiting for orders from Pondicherry on the first arrival of his English newspapers. Well our Lord prepares new times and we must first be silent, adore his ways and try to accommodate ours to His! 
Frederick has suffered 2 days from diarrhoea in consequence of dentition and the sudden change of the temperature. For the rains we had made it quite cool. He is now better. We had also some anxieties for Chr. Irion, he was very weak, without appetite, but is now getting round. But the Lord will make every thing come round at last and we shall praise him for ever.  Yours H G.

