Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, pd

 <6/7 Febr 48.>*
 <Sunday>*
Liebes Weib

Es waere gut wenn Du auch etwas Deutsch zwischen Dein Gemisch von Französisch und English hineinmengtest. In was für eine Verlegenheit hat mich nur Dein laine musselin gown gebracht. Ich wusste nicht ob linen or wool gemeint war, habe aber jetzt gefunden was ich Dir schicken will. 
The Arrowroot Cooly shall be dispatched tomorrow: and I hope it is the last commission for Mrs. Lascelles. You get an opportunity when she pays you to ask again concerning the promised payment for Arthur (you know she had promised something regular for him to induce us to take him) - this I hope will stop farther commissions. I do n't say this as if I was unwilling to help people according to my power, but to be made merely a tool by them, it is not wise for us to humour them. So I beg you - nomore Cinnamomoil and the like.

I hear from Heb that the Nilgh brethren have not subscribed the letter about the money affairs Perhaps they were staggered by my handwriting: if so, W. is a bad critick not to have discovered that thoughts and style are his brother's, and not mine.

Fritz has come here for the baptism of Br. I's baby. If I can (on account of the same, when I am to be the humble servant) I shall try to see the Lehner's once more before they leave. Perhaps I go over to Cann on Tuesday <8>*. The baptism is to be Wednesday <(9.)>*. I have seen your Tamil Munshee Chinna* Swamy Pillay: he sought an employ every where, knows Julie D<ubois>* and Marie M<onnard>* and Emma G<roves>* with plenty other names and has certificates some dozens, I gave him something for your sake (though he does not know that J. D. is my wife) and let him go, for he is evidently as worldly a fellow as any other Madras Christian. Talks much of duties, and is very careful about his Caste.
I have the pleasure to tell you that your letters might be a little larger without any detriment to my eyesight. But of course not if your eyes and hands are not equal to such a task.

Will you never write to dear Henriette who does so much for you though she is loaded with engagements. If you do write me to that effect, if not, then I will write.

Frederick is very busy moving on the ground, esp in my room - shows me on the Daguerrotype and distinguishes Christianely. He is now soon a year old - how time passes. You will by this time consider what is yet to be done for your health for your stay ... now D. V. be very short, and if you can still accomplish something in the way of recovery, don't be lazy but make the best use for your health: that I may be a little sure to take you down from the hills and be not obliged to do it with a doubtful mind. May God himself give us a joyful meeting! - Mrs Huber I hear expects her confinement within a month. I have for some time been without news from Mang. and Cann. hope to hear something when I see Hebich and perhaps the Lehners. With love to all
 Yours
 H Gundert
Tellich. 6 Febr 48

