Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, Nilghirries, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich 14 Febr 48
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Thanks for your letter with that of Groves - you might have answered him before he left Madras, but of course you are not so anxious to seize the last moments for a letter to reach. - What small little scraps you of late dignify with the name of letter, when really you for months dont even try to give me an account of your health. I dont want you to copy sentiments for me out of books or out of Br Buhler's mouth or out of any critical disposition (f. i. such ajudgment: many remember very little of their former state etc.) - what have we to criticize? We better look to ourselves and what does not proceed from real love, is of no value. I fear you have rather a very dry time when I see you always so much occupied with others. Do not you know that it is to me the most important to know how you are, and how you go on - today already a year in India - will you be able to do something when you come down, or go on lying on bed and couches, striving to do and not finding wherewith to perform? I believe that on your part there ought to be the greatest care to use every thing within your reach for your health, and above all avoid whatever excites, therefore talks about Committee.

You will have heard how wonderfully Möglg was preserved or restored, having fallen from horseback on my birthday, lost all recollection etc - Lehner told me that, whom I saw Monday evening on board his ship. They seemed both distressed with their children L. not being in the habit of caring for them. Mrs L. appeared to me very little changed she was very cordial, he related of the death of their children, all very sudden strokes, then about Mglg (who has since written that he is nearly recovered) and about the Committee. I caught a cold from riding over and going on board - in the evening I returned from the ship I was too late for Hebich's Lordssupper, given on that day because of the despirsion of a great part of his flock, the 25th to Madras, the invalids to England etc. The 9th I christened Jacob Wilhelm Irion. On the 11th Fritz with wife and child returned per boat to Calicut. Fritz seemed very happy his child is strong and happy. the little Irion very thirsty, covered with hair. Frederick fond of seeing many children together. He has just a boil that opened after having made him for a day rather feverish. I should hope he will after it is emptied sleep a little better, than he has done for a long* time. He does not teeth hard, already 6 teeth above, 2 below. but to sleep is a real cross for him, he mautzes (ask Mrs Weigle what that is) as soon as he is laid on the arms, and closes his eyes only after long repeated efforts to keep them open, resigning himself at last with a halfloud lamentation. He is exceedingly busy when awake. -

Today marriage of Noah and Hagar D. V. - The Cooly will arrive at Ootacmd one of these days. the gown is on the box. The arrowroot costs 5, cooly prepaid 1 1/2 Rs - 6 1/2 Rupees - My love to the brethren.

Otto Herrmann is married to a schoolmaster's daughter, writes Betulius. H Gross was vicarius to Wagner in Korb, writes now for Stirm a geography of the holy land. O Günzler Pfarrverweser in Hertmansweiler, his sister married to a Pf. Löffler in Haefnerhaslach. Wetzel Diaconus in Murrhard - Give these news to Br Weigle and now farewell
 Your H Gundert

