Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, via Calicut, pd

 <29th Febr / 1 März 48.>*
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Though it is only 2 days since I have written to you, I will not delay answering your letter received today which made me pity your nervous state and reprove myself for my unconcerned style of writing. I really cannot remember what made you fear, lest any estrangement come between us, for I have felt nothing of the kind. But I know that I sometimes write very hastily and should afterwards like rather not to have written. - Your willingness to return by the end of April the Lord granting you health to accomplish it, has rejoiced me, because I consider it as a sign that you are a little less alarmed at any changes, than you were for so long a time. Take up then again with your old husband and the little fellow, now soon a year old, and may the Lord if it be His holy will grant us a joyful meeting ere long. - Mr Mögling arrived here yesterday en route to Calicut. I gave to him the enclosure. He has spoken of all his ideas about Bale and I feel that I can in the main coincide with all his views. May God bless his journey up and his voyage home. Perhaps you may accompany him and Weigle down the hills, which would spare me a journey, costing about 3 weeks. With His mercy we can easily go through our remaining days or years. - We had a burial this evening of Noah, a man you hardly knew, after only 8-9 days of illness. I trust he is with the Lord, to whom he turned in our October days under circumstances peculiarly affecting. In his illness but little could be got out of him but he prayed several times himself and the brethren showed much affection for him. - Thomas who accompanied me last week to Vadagara intending to preach on a native festival has been laid up in Coilandy by an affection of the throat. So he could not accomplish his purpose for which no doubt our gracious Master has also had his good reasons. - Next week I may again have to preach in Cann. as Hebich is going to another feast. But you will direct to Tellicherry.

I saw a* Mr King the Manantoddy planter. Nothing particular about him. Also Mr Brennen, who inquired after you. - From Calicut news of the illness of Mrs Fritz' baby, of which Br Mögling will soon bring the particulars. It is in the way in which Christiane was attacked in the summer before our homevoyage.

May peace be multiplied to you in the prayer of
 Yours affly
 H Gundert
29th Febry 1848

