Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, pd

 <Saturday 22 Jan 48>*

Here my dear wife, not indeed the overland news, for you will know as much of them as we here, viz nothing - but first the Mal newspapers and 2dly the important fact, that Friday 21 Jan 48, at 11 o'clock in the night Mrs Irion gave birth to a healthy little boy and this with so little trouble, that I who went to bed in the next room 1/2 hour before did not know any thing of the occurrence until breakfasttime. You will tell this to the sisters with you. Indeed they say the boy cried heartily immediately after birth, but I had been so sleepy after 2 bad nights on an excursion to the South, that I did my nocturnal duty right well for once. In Vadagara I heard of an awful occurrence, a Mapla to drive away devils from his new built house and body had performed a human sacrifice - it is now 40 days, the story became known, but as he is rich, he is still abroad and the inquiry of the Tahsildar may prove abortive; all connive to let him escape. A Coya Abubekr is said to have advised this means, but I fear it will not come to the light before human Courts. In Chomb. I found Mannen and his wife in a nice state they will probably be baptized next week. May God keep them from the wicked one!

We in Tell Cal and Cann have written a separate letter about the children's question, as we could not well subscribe the Mang. letter, perhaps from being not clever enough to find out its real drift. We have written as we think, that it will be difficult to fix an age as so much depends on circumstances and the sending of a child to Bombay to go home f. i. with a Dharwar brother would cost more than if he be kept here some years longer and be dispatched with an opportunity nearer at hand. For the girls we have not deprecated altogether their coming out here after, but would leave this to circumstances. But that boys should not come out except if the Lord take them into his service. About the way and degree of their education at home we said nothing except that we expressed ourselves unconcerned about their becoming peasants handicraftsmen or gentlemen.

I am sorry that the other letter loiters so much about, it ought to have gone with this steamer. It seems the Ladies up there hear much more of these stories than ours do; in Cal. too the letters to the Committee are read before the wives, but here they heard nothing of our doings. 
It is time for me to conclude, as I have to preach English to morrow Brennen has gone to Bombay, for his teeth I hear - The Dr will soon visit the hills for his wife's sake. From Mögling we hear but mysteries. We are not as yet convinced of the necessity of his going home. Frederick is well has 6 teeth and 4 coming: crawls about and is very busy.

Yours in the Lord
 H Gdt
Tell 22d. Jan 4/ <(48)>*
