 Kotagherry 28 Ja <48>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa.

No news as yet from home. Mrs Lascelles has written, to beg that you would be so kind as to send her a box of arrow root for Mrs Mc Alpin she will be much obliged to you, I shall get the money for it. If you could had to that cooly load, a gown of mine which came in the last box wich came the other day, a mouline* laine dress white with bleu spots. If it is the least trouble some to you to do so; then leave it. I told Mrs L. that I had no wish to go to Ot. as I like this place very well. The movements of Mr L are still uncertain. Well at last your letters from home. Thanks to God for such good accounts. Buhler had also from Bale The Inspector has again pain in his back and cannot do any thing. Neufchatel is not so sure to be quiet and without war for the other cantons want now to fight against it for its refusal to help them.

Tellichery is the only place where Ladies hear nothing of the transaction which passes. for my part I am glad of it, besides the weakness of my nerves; my pride and ignorance would play me trickes. They would have avoid three attaques of Mr Huber if they had kept it for themselves at Calicut. With love to all kisses to the Babies I remain
 Yours J Gundert

I was very sorry the letter for the Comity was kept here so long. I told it to Mrs W that she should harry to send it at Catary to the Brethren; but, but,

Mr West has gone down, You will have seen him.

Thank Mrs Muller for her note. I had a letter from Mrs Cummin about her remouval at Mangalore.

