Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, Neilgherries, pd, via Calicut

 Tellich 21 Febr 48
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

I have to thank you for the longer letter received whilst I returned from Cannanore for a day - now I have returned after finishing the time of my locum tenens service. Hebich's 25 Regt is now ordered to China. There will be many prayers offered for that nation by the very people that fight against them. Heb. has been very happy at Payawur no stones flying nor much opposition, plenty of opportunity to preach. I am glad I could help him by occupying his place. The new regiment has but few nice people the officers of the Sepoyregiments come to the number of 8 or 9 regularly. Dear souls I was very happy with them. But also one of these regts may be called to China. Yesterday whilst I preached an officer had to lead his lady out of Chapel, so much affected was she by a sudden recollection of the report she had heard that they may be ordered on foreign service. - I returned this morning by boat and found these letters. One of Reinhard I retain as I wish to answer soon. But tell Weigle that O Herrmann in a disputation defended the thesis, quicunque scripta a Drr Baur Swegler etc edita legit tempus misere perdit: was nicht geringen Sturm erregte. Lastly H is said to have called B. a pig that undoes the vineyard of the Lord! etc - Hebich received from Christ 400 œ for the 2d quarter, the 3d he was told he will receive soon through Mr Casamajor. Perhaps the letters they receive before the end of the 3d quarter will induce them to give some extraordinary presents to us. Insp. Hoffm. pretty well again, is said to have held the service of the 6th Jany. I hope you are pretty well. Dear Frederick liked much to see me again.
Now farewell
 Your H Gundert

