Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich 14 Jan 48
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

I wonder you give so soon credence to all those reports about the contemplated changes. There is no such thing as yet as even a proposal to send Irion to Mang. nor shall we agree. If Mögl goes home he does so on his own account, but no brother can take his place without risking also his dismissal, should he for such a reason leave his appointed Station. No we remain on our spot, till the Committee send us away. - Layer has written well for his circumstances, the brethren in the Oberland have what they require, as their work is only beginning now. But there can be no doubt, that we on the coast, would be greatly straightened in our labours if the course of the Committee would continue for some time: it is not for our persons we write, the Comm. has Frid. granted to us in Tell. more of personal expense, than we hitherto required: on the other hand Catech. Munshi, outstations and all that sort of thing has been reduced by them. We must therefore fight a little against the principle which they wish to introduce as a rule, though we could submit to it if for a time only it was required to wait for a looking up of the home income. But leave that subject to others and we will turn to our daily work.

Anna is nice - Joseph too - his wife so so to all appearance, but nothing radical. Also Arabella having made a good beginning has been retarded and is sleepy again. We have to fight strongly against Satan's power over our ownselves, esp. in consequence of then unhappy differences called forth by the Committee's decrees.

All what you tell me of the Lascelles is only penible to me. Avoid by all means to become too familiar with them. You may wish to do good and may receive harm. I should not in your case try to take my abode with them except on a very clear call. But as you are for the recovery of your health separated from us for a season, do all with that view. This is your calling, and where you are most quiet there you may be longest, but avoid company which only frets and depresses your Spirit.

The Blandford's are pretty well just now. The little girl <Anna>* is nervous and has sometimes a quivering and trembling all over her body. The elder girl <Elisabeth>* has opened herself a little to me, but it is difficult to get into a talk with them, they have but few thoughts and few words. On the whole I think they should not be sent away to the relation who inquires after them. Thank Br. Weigle for his lines on the subject. I should be afraid to disappoint the dying wish of the father. And we cannot say that we are in such straits of money as absolutely to demand a reduction of all expenses that are not sanctioned by the Committee. 
We have a new soul - or pair of souls at Chombala - Mannen and his wife, he the brother of the last baptized Micha who has hitherto tried in vain to get his wife. By God's grace he will obtain her still at last. Her heart is divided and powerless. Mannen quite melted by the love of the Saviour, when he hears Him spoken of. We hope to get yet perhaps more of that family when the next storm has blown over.

Irion has these days strongly written to Mglg to induce him to stay till he gets an answer. - Well I thank you for the news of your health. Fr. is in good spirits, sometimes selfwilled, likes to imitate animals voices and is very playful. The other day his Amah visited him for the first time after Sept 1. and he knew her still after the first strangeness had passed over. We are on the look out for the steamer But I must to Anjerc tomorrow for Irion, whose wife is on the point on dit, but we waited for some time in vain. Grace be with you and all the brethren and sisters. Soon your exile will be at an end
 Yours HGdt.

