Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, Neilgherries, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich 9 March <48>*
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

As I am tomorrow going again to Cann for Hebich during his absence on the Taliparambu feast I make haste to answer this evening your last welcome letter.

Mögl will have arrived. Please tell him that Brennen has informed me, the steamer touches regularly at Calicut without previous application, at Cannanor only when passengers have first made known their wish to the agents. 
I will wait a week longer before I enter on the subject of your health and my duty with regard to it. The Lord will take care that there be nothing done but what serves to glorify his name. - You will be kind enough to collect papers written and printed which belong to Tellich. I believe Br Weigle has yet some, Br Buhler others.

You have to expect a letter from Rolle after some months; the postmaster general at Paris has informed me that it lies at Marseille and can not be forwarded until I pay the postage to Alexandria. So I shall write to Imer's. They seem not yet to be au courant at Rolle with that what concerns Indian postaffairs. Tell them occasionally that if they do not pay till Alexandria one letter of theirs costs us not below 7 1/2 Fcs de France. 
Frederick has passed his birthday in great state. He got I do not know what all in the shape of cloth, topi and biscuits. He is also more quiet in the nights sleeps sometimes really well, chiefly when he has passed the day in crawling. But as he is generally well clothed you may fancy how much the washerman gets to do for him. He is just now very proud of having learned how to descend from a chair, turning himself beautifully round on his stomach - for a long time he wanted always to descend with the forehead first, which is not generally considered the most eligible manner of doing the thing. I hope you will be pleased with his weight when you see him again. He is a good deal heavier than Ch. Irion. But his backwardness in speaking is very vexing. He hardly gets beyond the interjections which in most grammars are the last chapter, instead of the first.

Wilh I. is a quiet healthy child, also C M's daughter is going on well. - Joseph had helped at the burial of Noah and was it seems so afraid of having been infected that he really become unwell, and the women in his house were dreadfully frightened; after all it turns out to be nothing. Thomas is another man. He has travelled through the country some 10-12 days and preached fearlessly, though quite alone; having left him sick a day or 2 his companion went home. But he rallied soon and accomplished his purpose. 
We are just thatching this house.

The Lord and his grace and peace be with you and
 Yours HG

