To the Rev Church Missionaries in Allepie and Cott1

 <Anfang Decbr 48>*
 <(s. Brf an Heb 7 Decb 48>*
My dear friends

We have already for some years experienced difficulties in apportioning the charges made to our Mission by Mssrs Remigton and Co - still we were not prepared for the avowal of their complete ignorance as to the persons who may or who may not belong to the Basle Society's Mission, which is now made to account for their placing all charges connected with Miss[ionar]y Gentlemen to Mr Hebich's account. He may have been to be blamed since he merely referred the house for our names to the printed Reports. You will therefore kindly excuse our addressing you as a body for the purpose of obtaining that assistance from you which will prevent mistakes of this kind in future.

The charges which we can make out clearly are
11 Dec. box for Rev H. Baker, Allepey 10 - -
 " _"____"___"__Rev B. Bailey do 18.8 -
28 March Revd Belly (?) Allepey 20.2 -___48.10 -
June 1. Rev J. Chapman _7.6.10
Jul 4._____do_______________ 11 - -
 67 -.10
of others we can only form a guess
such as Jany 31. a charge of 36.4.10
 _4 - -
 _- 8 -
probably for 3 cases, of which one is mine,
Remain for Rev B. Bailey only, two thirds, say Rs 27 - -
under March 31. and Apr. 30. Rev. J Chapman, say____1.8 -
under Jul. 31 Rev. B. Bailey, say ________________ _- 12-
 _____________29.4 -
Last year's account was still more laconic than the one which we send herewith enclosed, f. i. there was a charge
1847 May 31. for customs on 12 Cases for sundry
________Revd Gentlemen per Childr Harold from London 49.4.
June 30. do - on 6 do of sundries per Regina from do 26.11.9 July 13. do on 7 do of sundries per John Will from do 64 - 10. with a number of smaller landing charges etc.

This provoked an inquiry, our Committee complaining of the amount to which the extra charges of the Mission were running on, the result of which was that the number of packages said to be received in our Mission remained a perfect mystery. We are glad to learn by this year's account that all that was written to our charge went at least bona fide for Missionary purposes - but you will share our present wish to be spared all the uneasiness which results from this confusion.

