Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing

 Kotagherry the 10th Mars <1848>*
 <Friday>*
Dear papa.

Many thanks for yours of the 29 it has given me great pleasure to see that indeed there is nothing between us. I had a fancy as if you were now tired of me and would rather have me here than down, if I could not work like I did when in good health.

I am glad you could agree with Mogling. Well at last Mogling came last night, as I was already in bed. I was rather afraid he would say that I should stay here 6 months longer, and was prepare in case he should give me such an advice. But lo! what has been my joye, his first news was "well you come with me to Tellicherry. Your husband has settled it so with me, and will meet us at Calicut. I hope the Lord will give me strength to labour, and courage and faith, to go on day by day with joye. I am just now in a fair trial, by which I shall be able to judge how much I can do and bear, I have for some time the charge of the children and of house keeping. Mr Mog <Mögling>* says that Frederic is indeed a fine, fat fellow, so it does not appear that his restlessness at night makes him worse; Mrs W.<eigle?>* shall not go down as Mog. <Mögl.>* expected; for she could not bear the heat; he preferres go down alone than to have her ill. She shall perhaps go down in October for the conferance which is to be at Bangalore. 
I had a letter from Miss Huber in Bale, but it is not worse <worth>* while sending you. This one of Mr Os<tertag>* I recieved just now. We were all surprised at the death of Fritz's baby. He wrote a nice letter to Buhler the nex day of the loss, being much comforted as well as his wife. 
We have not many letters more to exchange D. V. I shall make some ready for Mr Mog. <Mögl.>* to take home. Could you not make any thing ready for our children, that Mg. would take with him. I have nothing here; but a dress for your Mama bought in Tanjor. What would you think nice and small to be sent for them. have you nothing too which would please the Ost. I can get nothing here. You might perhaps get some of the Sandlewood fans, or boxes. 
Give my love to all, soon please God I shall see that dear babe and you all. I shall see Mrs. Lascelles before I go down and and try whether she has mind to give any thing for Arthur. I have here a little Girl ready to go down with me.
 Yours aff J. Gundert

