 Kotagherry 6 je 48
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa.

Est il probable que les amis Irions iront remplascer Mr Mogling, qui ira en Europe vers la fin d'Avril? On dit ici que le Comit‚ pour la traduction de la Bible doit avoir lieu en Mars au lieu d'Avril; acause du d‚part de M. pour Bale. L'Institut des garcons de Tellicherry sera t il transport‚ … Mang. Si Irion va … Mg: les Mullers les suivront ils? Les Muller de Teli viendront ils sur la montagne, je veux dire … Nettoor?

Layer … ecrit … Mangalore qu'il ‚tait bien satisfait avec les arrangemens du Comit‚ et que les frŠres n'avaient qu'… ˆtre un peu ‚conome et tout irait bien. On est pas trop satisfait d'un pareil avis; surtout d'un frŠre qui a trois enfans. Je crois comme lui que nous pouvons vivre. Ah si seulement l'avancement du Royaume de notre PŠre Celeste nous tenait plus … coeur, les autres choses nous paraitaient l‚gŠres; Et si nous ne voulons pas avoir notre foi exerc‚e d'une maniŠre il faudra que nous le supportions d'une autre maniŠre et peut ˆtre plus penible que sous le rapport des secours p‚cuniers

At last here is a letter from Marie; and Miss her's is very nice; give her my love; The young Makenzee is often here, he wanted to live with us; but we have not room for him; and the uncertainty of the future is also a reason for begining nothing; as it is likely, that both Weigles will go at Ot. during the meating of the Comity. He is going at Katary for some weeks, then Buhler is to come here to build the mission house. Sister Greiner is not quite so well as she was, she suffers from headach; and homweh. How is Anna now? and Joseph, his wife?

Well time goes very fast yet four month and please God I shall be at Tellicherry: Now is the best season to be on the hills: still it is not cold as hither to we have had no frost. Mr Lascelles has just paid us a visit. He will soon go down. When I was with them, they spoke of his going to Honno - some time in this year; He then asked me if I would kindly stay with her after his going down. I said yes perhaps. Now she counts that I shall keep her company. And perhaps I shall do it: I hope also it may be of some profit to her, trusting the Lord will give me grace to be faithful in every thing, I thank God that he has in great part taken away that shiness from me, which kept me often from telling the truth, as well as that carnal wish to please certain people It may still be some time before L. goes down; as he has (I am told) applied to the Governement for an other situation than Honore, which he does not like.

Do not send any more the German newspaper to W. the last costed no less than 10 Annas; so he would rather not recieve them any more - by Banghy You may perhaps send them together in March by Mogling. The other day, the Dr had two cows torn by a tigre, and quite near our house two goats were killed by wild dogs. How are those three Europeen children; nothing new in any of them? their parents were fine people I hear; and wished very much to have them brought up with pious people rather than with his parents who are unconverted

Thanks for your letter of the first. No one here knew what the Lehners had written home. for two weeks they have no news here from Mogling, they suppose that he has perhaps changed his mind about going home for a visit in order to speak with the Comity. I did not speak of my health for what shall I say. I hope by the end of April to be able to go down, I am stronger, and quite fat with little appatite, now and then the same pains as ever in my stomach. The Dr at Outacamund said it was the nerves. the one here says that it is the piles which cause this pain in the low parts; with much weakness,

Now love from all and to you all
 Yours afftly
 J Gundert

