Mrs. Gundert, Kotirgherry, pd

 Tellich. 1 Jan 48
 <Saturday 1>*
My dear wife

This is the first letter in which I write 48, and I hope I may have less to write to you in 48, than I did in 47. But let the future things with all secrets rest in the hands where they are safely treasured up. All that is right and good and perfect will be given and handed down to us in its proper time, even during our sleep. We have a good father and it is not more than proper that we allow him to make his preparations for the large Christmass presents he daily gives, quite as it suits him. - Your almanach must be out of order, for you write "on the 26 N. (is this Nro or Nov?) Marie's birthday" - very strange we have no child born in Nov. as far as I know, and Christianele, not Marie was born on the 26th of - I do not remember the month. You see that your pen does not follow very readily the ideas that shoot through your head, you ought to make it a little more obedient. - Well and so we are in a new year, and shall eat in it and put clothes on, just as in the old, and if we live we shall also have again a Christmass night, let the money come from whence it may. It is right not to allow oneself to think long on these subjects. We have sold no horses, but Irion bought one and the Cann brethren will buy one for me. However it may be, I shall D. V. one day get up the hills, and you will then be so strengthened that you can walk down with - or ride down behind me. Br Lehner without thinking of it - has hurt both himself and us by writing to the Committee that he had by and by acquired or laid up 2000 Rs for his Children. It is but natural that they wish him to spend these or part of them, when they are told of it. And the Devil will whisper to one or the other: perhaps the brethren have all hoarded up something in the years of plenty and would not starve by being left for a while without fresh supplies. I thank God that we never laid up any thing against future contingencies: nor shall we, except we be forced. - We in Tell Cann Calicut have written to Mangalore our readiness to subscribe to a remonstrance prepared there, but though it is now 10 days have received no answer. So we do not know what steps they will take there. I for my person do little know what is the best to do in our circumstances and therefore am glad if I may live from day to day till all be decided. - We are so glad to hear that Mörike is better. I fear a return to Europe would do him no good. The Lord can restore him beyond all we venture to hope. Of your own health you write nothing I hope you continue to pick up strength peace and comfort. We have all or almost all good health. Marie is occasionally troubled with her own complaints. Frederick has now 4 upper 2 lower teeth and is getting the others rapidly through the gums. He is now exceedingly fond of long walks (chiefly on my arm); he also makes nice steps when held by his arms. Often he enjoys the small bandy with Christian Mrs I. near her confinement, but well up. I cannot understand why you mention Uranie particularly: she is not so altogether a new child, though there is a change, her lazy habits are not altogether rooted out on the whole you must know that there is a great difference between the individuals. God's grace the same to all, but their receiving it and watching over it with diligence and walking in it, all as different as possible. The Devil tries to make new inroads and you must be prepared for struggle, just as before if not more, only that it is less hopeless and you are assisted by many sincere prayers. This evening we walked with the boys to Catiroor and back, I related a story and we sang much on the way.
With love from all to all
 Yours HGdt

