Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry

 Cann 16 March 48
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

I am glad that you are now so far settled, as your last letter informs me, and hope it will do you no harm to come down again into our heat. This year appears to me very hot and I long for the first rains to cool the atmosphere. Heb's house is particularly hot and close. But he is in a hotter room yet in Taliparambu, where his work seems to go on quietly: at least he has in 6 days had only one attack with stones and noise: since then I have no farther news.

You are thinkg already of sendg home, and seem not to know that Mglg probably remains for the present in India, seeing the Committee are willg to do his will. If I can find anything to send to the children, I shall be glad to rejoice their hearts, but hardly know what to seek. - West is now living on 25 Rs a month, includg servt and all (so he says) and writes to Mrs W.<est>* to try and cook her own and the children's dinner: in the same letter he coolly informs her he means to go to China. She wrote to H.<ebich>* and as he is not here, I commenced reprovg him for his folly. But he has no ears except for misapplied scriptures and I am rather anxious about him, should he for a long time remain thus separated and given over to his own fancies. He wears mustachios like a Dragoon. - This evening already a week that I have no more seen Frederick. On Saturday I may hope to see him again. Pauline E<cklin>*'s letter is very nice, Ost's very empty. Soon we may hear also of the other children. - The Calicut brethren are still under a kind of cloud. Mrs Ir is indeed better again after a dangerous dysentry, but Mrs Hub's confinement whilst her bilious attacks are continuing, fills them still with apprehensions but our heavenly father will provide for all. - Since the beginning of the year 9 children of the congregation here have died - now the sickness seems stayed. But it is wonderful to me that on our 3 stations we have made such experiences after the gracious visitation in Oct. All this is calling on us to be ready and blessed be God, who mingles so much of hope and consolation with the deaths of those that departed from the midst of us. He will also make us conquerors over death whenever His hour comes! - The new regiment here is coming nearer. I believe there will be a work amongst them. I had more than 60 soldiers on Sunday. I have enjoyed here much peace. To see H. before I go, I do not expect. But I hope he will also come back strengthened and refreshed: so he always is in returning from a preachg excursion. Love to all
 yours affly
 H Gundert

