Rev. H. Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing

 Kotagherry 16 Mars <48>*
 <Thursday>*
Dear papa.

The Lord be praised for the good news you have sent me of dear Frederich: Though I expected it as an unswer from the Lord yet I have been surprised to see his answer; and am ashamed of my unbelief. One day as I was praying for him I felt as if a Yes had been said to me; and I waited for news impatiently.

I am also (exepting a cold) very nicely thanks to God. and I look at it as a sign that I may go down with confidence. You will already have heard that Mogling is not going home since he has had good news from the Inspector. this all what Pauline tells me. But W. has been pleased to write immediatly to Mr Machenzie all What has passed between his big brother and the Comity; they consent to all his proposals etc. is it not a curious thing that a stranger should be made acquainted with all what passes. Buhler who had heard nothing about this has been rather wexed to see the letter of W<eigle>* to M.<ackenzie>* New friends only are good to W. and even they must regard him high or they are nothing. Buhler is now going over and I have no doubt that he will have some what with W. One day as W was speaking of going to Mang. he said to Moriki I regrette no one on the Hills but dear Mack. Moeriki said surely you do not mean to say that you are attached to no one but to M. He said indeed I feel so united to him that he only, I regrette to leave. People who live with W. have much to bear, He is mad of his wife; when she is a little unwell, he is so much cast down that he speaks to no one, and says to her, you will die, you will die; she ... now learned his way of speaking, so she only laughs at him. The other day when he came hom to meet his brother He found her with a little swollen face from toothach. He was in such distress, that his brother M. was obliged to rebuke him; than he saw that on no account she should go in the law country with him.

All the papers I shall collect, and bring down. It is very curious about that letter from Rolle. We have been very happy to hear by friends at Ot, <Ootac.>* that, Mrs Fritz has been wonderfully delivred of a serious illness. Please to give my thanks to Marie for her last letter, It may be that Mg. <Mögl.>* will not return so soon down as he intended in his first plan; it shall be perhaps at the end of April

Tell to no one what I have told of W<eigle.>* Marie has told to Frederich that I would bring him a kake as big as the verandah. tell him we have no kake; but he shall I hope have honny and fine clothes which I am making. 
With love to all, kisses to baby
 Yours aff
 J. Gundert

