Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich. 7 April 48
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

I am glad you have a better house for the last weeks of your stay up there. But the Lord is our house let us rest in Him with body soul and spirit. That is a house that travels along with us and makes us without fear, whether Devils or elephants be on the way. - As you mention something of Hebich I will tell you so much, that there is certainly something which wants mending which the Lord our great mender will also accomplish in him. He has confessed not indeed the first time, but afterwards when he remembered it, to me and of late at Mangalore, that he had some 100 Rs remaining in his hand when closing the accounts of 1838. The accounts were right, when he counted them over and over again; he could not find the place where the fault was, but there was the money and he thought he might spend it - in the Lord's work sooner or later, as he did in Cannanore. When he mentioned it to me it did not startle me, as I had no cause for distrust, and had also not an overfine conscience in these money relations with the Committee. But in Mang. he was suspected of many more things, chiefly I believe by Gr and Lehner, such as having made the Committee pay twice for the Honore house etc which when Mögling in a sharp letter questioned him about it he could disprove. However, the matter has been brought about by the Lord, to make us sift our conduct in money matters with the Committee, and Hebich as well as myself have written confessions to the Comm. about it. This is for Heb. a great step, as he is our treasurer and had often assured the Committee of his faithfulness in the administration of his trust. May the grace of God now accompany the confession, that both the Comm. and we may reap benefits from the act. It was certainly necessary for Hebich to be brought down so low, because he laboured under the disease of a double conscience, one that of a minister and example to his flock, the other that of a merchant, which he could never have prayed that his flock might follow him in it. But the brethren would as certainly wrong him and themselves, were they to make an outcry on him, as guilty of faults which they themselves would not have committed. For myself the benefit derived is this: I laboured under a certain identification of my conscience with his, which hindered me in serving the Lord and him as I ought to have done. Mögl said very properly: why think it sufficient to confess faults agst the Committee only before the brethren? From the moment when I could bring to paper what I felt myself guilty of before the Comm. I felt also clearly where H. was wrong and could, the Lord helping me, advice him to run the same way. Mögling has been much endeared to me by the whole transaction. Something had come between us, chiefly by my fault, but from the time of his visit here I was forced to correct my view of him, for I have seen again more and more the image of the man as he was after his conversion, with a childlikeness which puts me to shame. I do not know if I have made it sufficiently clear to you, but what I pray you to come to is this: stop your ears to common complaints, which come not from a spirit of love, but lower also your regards for Hebich or myself, till the Lord assures you, you look not upon any man with the eyes of the flesh, and take no delight in man's judgment, be it praising or condemning, but think of every one according to what is written. May the Spirit of truth help us to that end!

Yesterday <6 April>* was the great day when Frederick walked for the first time. He will have many tumbles because he is so forward, in this very much like his father. I's Christian is rather suffering. We have a new horse, Fritz sold it to me, it goes well in the bandy, and will I hope carry you out more regularly than you wished it hereto fore. Henceforth every thing must be done by command, so you may prepare yourself to return under the heavy sceptre of your Master with becoming deference and submission! Tomorrow to Anjercandi! Grace be with you and your
 H Gundert

