Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, via Calicut, pd

 Tellich 8 Jan 48
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

What you say about the parcel to Marie I do not understand. One directed to me arrived and I gave her the cloth, as written long ago, but I do not know of any parcel addressed to her. Perhaps she does not write about the cloth as she seems to have scruples about a silk gown. However she said nothing to me but that she hopes to settle with you when you come down. - Mrs Irion is very near her confinement, Mrs M about 5 months if I am right. Bertha <Albrecht>* more, as far as I can hear. But we do not hear often from them. - From Mangalor we have now at last got a letter which all of our stations will subscribe as a demonstration against the Committee's endeavours to put us on a salary fixed so low. I do not complain of that what concerns the personal expenses, but I fear the compulsory retrenchment on the work. But the Lord will bring all to rights. I am glad that we once more could combine to write a letter in common and hope the brethren will all subscribe. Miss has been rather ill - we had many colds catarrhs fevers about us, boys girls and adults; the coughing made it even difficult to hold the services esp in the evening. But all are now in a better state of health. Miss is up and doing well. Noah was to marry Hagar but she is not at all in a hurry to say yes, should like to learn yet more, but after all the marriage I trust will come to pass. - My services at Cannanore have brought me yesterday the present of a poney from the 2 Capts Young. So I am again in the saddle and am glad for it. Is it really true that Weigle sold his horse? I should be very sorry for him, to be always reminded in his pedestrian troubles of the Committee's cruelty. - You will know of the Swiss war. Neufchatel is neutral, so your friends have at present quiet homes. But the Basle artillery has marched. I wonder what the end will be. God shakes the dry sticks once more before he burns them. May He have mercy with our native countries and not remove the candle stick in our generation. - In Mahe there are new beginnings. Micah baptized end Dec. is on an expedition to Calicut to try and get his wife again, with the 3 children. His brother is nearly resolved to come out, pushed on rather than kept back by his wife and there are yet more promising appearances in that family. Here on the bazar Thomas has occasionally real fights and hard trials to encounter but of late he has occasionally made deep impression. - Of Bakr and his wife I cannot say much. Neither is Mark really recovered, though there was a great change at first, the Devil tried to take him to the Tamil country, from where a relation of his had written for him: yet now he is resolved to stay. 
Love to the brethren and sisters
 Yours HG.
Tell. 8 Jan 48

