 [ca. 29 März 1877]
My dear Children [Samuel]

Your letters have given us much joy, we injoy for you the time of rest which you have on the Mook and hope you may return at your work refreshed and strengthened in body and spirit, no doubt that the baby gets red cheeks inspite of the cold and Catarrh which you have. I hope that you have a fine weather, it is right to have your Aya coming to you; for you cannot rest with a baby and this time ought to be injoyed without cares and troubel, I trust Samuel is well again, May the Lord be with you and give you peace and joy in Him. I hear that your dear Mama is to come in Calw for some time I shall be glad to see her, it is a long time I have not seen her, one expects in Steinhouse a baby in the begining of Mai, Marie will have told you the time she hopes to be delivered she is very big and minds she will get tweens; which I would not wish her though for herself she would have no objection! Caroline who knows what a deal of troubel it is might tell her, that the joy is diminished by the fatigue. John has been less well these days, the spring agrees usually not with him, he suffers from headach; but is chearful and his meetings are of great blessing, in Calw, he is really a fine Christian. Theodor and Carl are very fond of Adelle she is a sweet creature, calls her father Johaness papa and her mother Marle Mama lumple Mama She talks every thing, is truly very amiabel. Carl visits us often for he wants stemps from Gdpapa and from me "bonenstake" to fish in the river Theodore comes also now and then even alone with Adelle who the moment she enters the room says Opapa and will go up, even mounts up the the stairs alone.

Your dear Hermanle will soon do the same

Give my love to all those who remember us black and white, and accept a hearty kiss for the dear pet and yourselves
 Yours affectly J. G.
