<ad No. 196)>* Calw 3d </4>* June 1877
 <erh. 21. Juni 77>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Many thanks for your kind letter of the 12th May. We have been much with you in Spirit, and felt that it would be very difficult for you to see your way; and we could but pray that God would show you clearly what is his will. should you be still in doubt to be called here than He should lead papa to take an other place; and we wait quietly on our Lord who surly will show what is to be done, It is a precious thing to pray with a good conscience that is with the witness that I will but God' will and not like the children of Israel who asked the prophet to inquire for Gods will while meanwhile they had settled what they would do; there may be in the bottom of the heart a secret desire that Gods will might be so or so, but in truth and uprightness we can say Gods will be done. It is not without much prayer that the thing has been put before you.

Yesterday the second came quite unexpected Uncle Frederic we had much joy to see him, he seems to be some what better than formerly, I am specially glad for Uranie who of late had become dejected, melancholy, as she cannot go out at all having pain in her legs Frederic will remain a few days here than rejoin his wife who is in Neuchatel, they intend DV spend the hot season on the mountains of Suizserland and afterward come to Canstadt to use the water which did him good formerly. Francis with Lucy are to come in three weeks it appears and will probably remain in Switzerland or where? the son Francis comes also in Europe but where one does not know. 
The good news about dear Tine and the children give us joy. Emmale must be very forward that she can walk and talk a little. What a joy it would be if G'dpapa could walk with his 8 grand Children! Today papa is in Heidenheim, it is not good to be away one night because he misses his bath. Adieu dear Children With a kiss to everyone
 Yours affectly JG.
