 Wildbad 21 Jully 77
Dear papa

Many thanks for the notice you have kindly sent for Miss Oehlers journey. Thanks also for the journal and fueilles religieuse, I have lent them to the Miss Oehler and Bauer; but they have little wish to learn or read specially the B. who has something very excitable and curious. not ashamed to say that she believes nothing; the poor mother a widow has 4 girls light minded who querell with the mother the father was Decan in Weinsberg. I thank dear Marie too for her kind letter we were glad to hear from her and hers, It has been raining so much that I do not see our people, Tante was a little moment with us yesterday. Today it is less cold and pretty nice, Uranie has soon finished her stemps, a young man from Kornthal is here who is much interested in marken, he gathers also for the Mission; and has seen in the Calwer Blatt how one has to cut them, and regrets that his have all been cut too small, he is a fine boy 16 years, has since a year something like carriure at the heel, he has been confirmed by Pf Staut whose teaching has been of great blessing to him. Uranie was quite touched that you took the trouble to write in frensh. So the Steinhouse peple have been in Teinach perhaps they stretch the journey a little farther once and see Wildbad too,

Pour dear Louise Dorsh has a difficult task after the long illnes of the mother to have yet the father with the prospect of a long illness too. May the Lord stengthen her in faith and courage I beg dear Sophie to give her my love and sympathy when she writes

Many thanks too for the good words for Anna perhaps to day I may see her, Inspector Josenhans has paid us a visit with his son and two daughters, Miss Elise with her brother are here since a fortnight, the father having work in Stutg came to see them.

GrandMama said that Julia in Nirtigen is very poorly, no one is permitted to see her by fear to provoc spiting blood. Sophie shall not remain longer then 6 month in Neuchatel. Ernst is making progres in learning as he grows older. the father was several days in Stutgart for the examination of young men. Thanks for the letter sent to Uranie here it is. Yesterday evening the colporteur had a meeting as he has every Friday for the people here. The weather is getting better it seems The bad guests are not pleased of the rain and the peasants are thankful. Half of our time is over I hope, Uranie is pretty well, her arm and knee are still the same, but her Appetite is somewhat better, Mama though contented has not lost her pain in the bac and side, Aunt and Anna walk a good deal between the rain, Mama was here one hour while the others walked, They all send you love, Much love to all first to dear Jettle to dear Marie' house; dear Frederic' house, to all 
Wishing you a good Sunday tomorrow
 Yours J. G.

If some one would come to see us, they should take a bag to take back the stamps and other things
