 Wildbad 14 July 1877
Dear papa

Many thanks for your kind letter, we were very glad to hear from Calw. Yesterday I wrote about the person who might run away with the Vereins money according to Mrs. Verners opinion; May God lead Frederic in the matter. 
Dr Schönleber has only advised the Carlsbad salts to Uranie against constipation which the meneral drink water causes usually. The Miss Bauer is from Canstatd, her sister the nicest* had only come to accompany the sick one, she will have returned through Calw in order to use her retour billet, the accident having caused a day or two of delai and in Baden they have refused to accept the retour billet she had; one had asked by telegram from Banhof. 
I would be very glad if Frederic could send me some tractats more for one or 2 M. if he has none of Bale which I get for nothing. The Children were so delighted to get some that I wish to have more if possible, Uranie could also sortire or put in order marken, stemps, She took her first bath yesterday evening, liked it and slept well. Georg et Emma with Miss Oethle the bride of bruder Hüttinger in Mangaloor, She came to Stutgart to see the Plebst not finding them she came to Wildbad, she left this morning for St Galle her home.

Frauline Eöler is very aimiable comes often near us her father is Pfha near Heilbroon.

The new born in Emma and Maries houses will soon feel Gr'papas hand and know the voice I hope that dear Marie is getting strong. I send her a few lines for Marie Monnard to whom she will write she told me, I have just been … la gare with the Plebst and Anna G. to recieve Aunt Reiniger, Adolph would like to have his children away by Mama here or some where else; but no one can take them for a change, About Theodors family they know nothing, they seem to be more distant since their visit in Stutgart, Gustave with the whole family went with Aunt till Neuenburg than farther to Herrenhalp where they will stay. I am too late to congratulate Sophie D. but I wish her a good year, much love from Uranie and myself to dear Jettle and Sophie, how is Anneli and Catherine? much love to them and the Weitb to all in Steinhouse Joh s and the whole house. Marie and Emma have I hope good nights inspite of nursing. We injoy with thanks to God and yourself this time of rest.

With love to all
 Yours affectly JG.

Many thanks for yours of the 13th love from the Pl Anna, Aunt. 