<(kam mit Epp v. 6. Aug)>* Wildbad 11th 5 OC <Wildb. 11. Juli 77>*  <soll heißen 11. Juli 5 ocl Abs>*
 <(in Mt Clem 23. Aug>*
Dear papa

After we had left Pf<orzheim>* where dear John sent us off farther we went to Brezing where two gentlmen toot seat in our carriage. there I sow Conductor Seyfried from Wildbad who said in a quarter of an hour you shall see the place where the accident has hapened; from our carriage we looked down where the railway is rather deep about half way to Neunburg from Bre. there we sow the first Vagon first place injured* the kissens put to some distance under a roof the second wagon also broken the locomotive half burnt, than still two vagons thrown on the side of the road much hingured*, than one or two standing on the side with one side of the vagon off, than a few vagons farther which appeard good. We heard that 10 persons had been much hurt a woman who had been in Wildbad for cure returning home had a leg broken. Dr and Mrs Werner had safely arrived with several sic Children, they were expecting more as looking for them in Banhof they hear what had haped to the railway in returning from Wildbad to Pf. So Dr Verner had to take a Carriage with part of the children to return. Mrs Verner is still here with several Children who are to return, she will go to morrow I hear. I have not yet seen her, She is in the town, We arrived here at three O'C rather tired and burned by the sun. We are very thankful to be here peopel are kind and nice toward us, we are to the top of the house 48 steps I am sorry for Uranie; but it cannot be helped, the staircase are good and not too many folloing 8 per stages that is 16 from a loging to an other. 
I hope to see the dear Plebsts and Mama afterward; but I wanted to have these few lines ready before going out as I here that a post will be going 
So good buy With much love to all and many thanks to dear John  Yours affectly JG.

Dr Jeumleber has just been here who has taken notices of all the new commers, Uranie has been asked too, he has told her to take Carlbad salts when she drink the water and remain but 10 minutes in the bath, she was glad to see him

A Miss O...er is here cousine of the Oeler in Tubigen she speaks a little frensh there are here several young Ladis, 2 Miss Bauer, the father is Decan in Alvangen or what
