<(ad 217 und 218)>* <Calw>* Sunday 4 </5>*th Nov <77>*
 <erh. 26. Nov>*

My dear Children [Hermann]

I hope you are all happy in you new house and injoy with thanks to the Lord the good things which you have which however may be imbittered with many small things, The day after we had recieved your letter I awoke with the words, Be adorned with humility. in frensh Soyez orn‚s pƒres d'humilit‚, What is that? a woman puts her onement where they can be seen, juwel perles are put on the fingers, on the head, round the neck, the body is adorned in many ways the house and rooms too, but the adornement which the Lord will have us to put on is humilite that which is not at all in our nature; how to do? where to get this apparel; for it is a commandment. "Be adorned," the only way will be to study Jesus who was humble of heart and has said learn from me for I am such a one lowly and humble meek. After I had prayed for such grace for myself, I thought of my dear ones in America for if they have the ornement which the Lord will have they will care little for the ornement of the house or at least think that the one required by the Lord is needful and far supirior. In the Philipp second Chap. we learn how our Lord was adorned and we are to have the same mind or be like minded; how very far are we still. May He who made Himself of no reputation, who took our nature became a servant and learned obedience till the death of the cross teach us the true humilite and adorne us with His mind, A better wish I can not have for you and myself. May He our dear Lord give it unto us! 
Since some days I have a cold with some fever; it will I hope be taken away a little patience, like you, who had also a cold even Emmale 
With hearty love to all of you
 yours affectly JG

I hope that my dear Tine has in her new house a good potag‚ to cook A special kiss to her

Monday Yours of 18 Oc has just come for which many thanks I rejoice with you in the new house may your joy still increase by seing the spirit walking in many and revive the old Christians
