 1C. 23 Aug 77.

My dear Major Stoton

Your first letter from Rajamundy arriverd with the last mail. This then I suppose is the station I have henceforth to write to. You are very kind in giving me full authority and approving of my arrangements for the children beforehand. But there are some difficulties about these arrangements so I shall now enter into details

If you had a year ago told me, you could give 20 œ a month for your 5 children and I was to find a person or institution willing to take them on these terms that would have simplified matters and I should have been spared much thought and talk Certainly I should not have offered myself, but I might have asked clever Miss Bergfeldt who was then in our neighbourhood (now at Cassel) and she might have devised a way how to manage with that sum. Here I cannot find persons willing to board and able to educate even your youngest child for less than 3 œ a month; the girls require therefore 12 œs at the least for sustenance. the regular instruction of an elder girl comes to 1/2 œ for each of the younger to 1/4; adding this to the above, you have 13 1/2 œs for each of the 4 girls, without clothes, books and other means of instruction. You will then see that the 4 girls require something like 15 œ. Thus there would remain 5 œs for Harry at Kornthal. But this is exactly the sum you see from the prospectus, which he will have to pay for boarding lodging and tuition (60 œ a year). What remains then for wash, books and all other extras, quite apart from his equipment which is very poor. Hence I am at a loss now to manage with the sum you promise. The next step is therefore to ask Prof Pfleiderer, whether under present circumstances he would have the kindness to consider Harry for the next twelve months as being under 10 years, which would reduce the boarding etc to 40 œs, or 4 1/2 œ per month, thus leaving a slight margin for extras. I hope he will accede to my request. Likewise I have asked Mrs Klinger only to provide the most needful for the girls under her charging*. Another point is this. You write "until I know from you exactly what is wanted I shall remit monthly 20 œs." I had entertained the queer notion that with the children there would come money, perhaps not much, not enough, but still some money. You knew from the prospectus that you had to pay in advance; and if I had indeed in Frebruary written that in case of necessity I might advance some sum, I considered, this proposal as cancelled by your abstaining from sending the children at the 2d term, in May. After that I felt that as you were in possession of all the items of information, you would arrange in such manner rather than leaving the transaction incomplete. But on the 27 July the children came, I hoped at least with some small sum for commencing the account. Instead of that Mr Morrison feared he would not have enough to take him back, so I had to lend him 1 1/2 œ; then I had to take Harry to Kornthal and pay for him, as much as I could find 10 œs, and to Mrs Klinger for the younger girls 6 œ. <We expected a outfit* for each of the children, and a list of the same, there was no list and so many things were wanting that we had at once to try and supply them.>1 Since then I wait for money, but you write I shall send - which may mean sooner or later - not even naming a date when you will send. 
Can you wonder if the calmness of your promise had something startling? Has perhaps a letter been lost? is not all this, I ask myself, a question that occurred to me again and again arise from an idea, as if I had asked for the children, as if we wanted to have them? The very contrary is the case. My wife who has done hard work in her day will soon be 68 years; it cost me a real pang to see her girding herself for this new task. But then we supposed it would be lightened by your anxiety to lessen our share of the load. Was I imprudent in this? You with the double and triple of my income would surely not wish me to spend hours in devising how to obtain the means for carrying on this work. Even should you die suddenly, surely you would not allow the children to go uncared for. I did not know you, I may perhaps guess that you had once been selfindulgent, that you were even now not quite free from some noble passions, but still you seemed so anxious about the welfare your children that I was bound to consider you as a tender father. Pardon me if I confess that I begin to doubt on this point. How can you allow 4 weeks to pass off without a letter to your children, without looking any how to their welfare? Can you be sure that they are not made to feel that they are beginning to be a drain and a burthen? You have allowed us to commence operations, buy what is needed, arrange for musiclessons, ask about a pony etc as to render it possible for me to transfer all the children if need be to Kornthal. That meant at least 48 œs for each girl or 16 œs per running* for the 4, the Quarter to be paid in advance without warning us before hand as to the scale to which every thing is to be reduced. I must be left free to send the children away if the burthen should prove too heavy.

Is it not hard on children to let them enter a new stage of their lives with expectations which must be tuned down from step to step? I am perhaps more silent at dinner than I was, and Nelly who is a sharp girl regards me with questioning eyes: have I perhaps already become less kind to her? How are we to behave to Harry when he passes his holidays here? will they perceive a change? Well I do not know, but I try to place myself in your position, and I feel you ought to do more to bind the children to your person, to sow love now that you may once reap it.

May you help me to a more cheerful view of matters before Mrs White pays her promised visit in Oct. Possibly she must then be informed that I do not feel equal to the encreased responsibility laid on me and that I wish to put it on stronger shoulders. But it rests with you to make the proper arrangements, say for keeping the children here or for sending them to Kornthal or even for their return to England whenever we abdicate our charge. 
I am of course sorry to write in this way, but I feel that I had only the choice between keeping silence altogether or speaking out my mind clearly at the very outset. Believe me that I can make allowances for exceptional occurrences, but I claim equally your indulgence for my feeling awkward in the new position I am placed in.
