<(zw. 202 und 203)>* Wildbad 17 July 77
 <via Calw 23. Juli 77 erh. 11. Aug>*
Dear papa

Miss Oehler ask whether she would have better to go to Tubingen from here through Calw or through Stutgart what do you say?

Miss Dorsh will have had sad news about her Reemsthal as one says it has hailed so fearfully that some grain were as big as an Egg.

The paquet has come, I think Uranie might have left the marks or stemps till she goes back to Calw, one has not tables convinient as at home to sortire them; Please tell dear Jettle that I like Stachelbeeren better than träuble, but I need not to get some as we can buy Kirschen or other fruits, cherries for 11 pf per pds

Aunt Reiniger was here this morning, since that the wind has blown so strongle that every one kept at home quietly.

Anna had a nice letter from Adolph Aunt asked her whether she was not touched and incouraged by such letters she looked very sad saying she had no feeling of love niether for him nor for the childre she feels dead to every thing men and God, she has cast off God and of course she is rejected, however she is very obedient to Grandmama, serves her dilligently and gracefully, saying now and then nicht war so hat Emma Plebst gethan? this is regarding doing Mama, hair and others services, but she looks as if she had no blood so pale and lifeless that one can but be full of pity with her inspite of feeling that there is obstinacy and self will in her, Onc she spoke with Emma Plebst as she would make an end to her life. Emma made a secret of it before Grandma and Aunt because they would be afraid. 
Uranie bathes at 5 Oc the evening as she has a place for herself alone and one cannot bath at an other time, Uranie likes to be alone the place is more convinient for her to enter in and go out of it, also to dress one is alone. This evening the weather is fine I go with her and will see our people who live near the Bath

Much love to our dear ones in Dreiss' h. Marie is nicely that she can be up and her big boy has he enough to drink? Adele seems to make visits a little every where, Julia has not much to water in the garden as it rains every day.

Much love to dear Emma and her house to Jettle and the whole house sans oublier Christine. I am sorry that by Annele it is not better. 
With love from Uranie and Yours
 affectly JG.

I thank dear Frederic for the enveloppes Love to David when you write. How are you dear papa can you sleep pretty well? Is John pretty well? 