 <27 Juli 1877>*
1Dear papa

I hope that you had a good day yesterday, not agreable on account of the rain at least here it rained the whole day, but than you had less heat; Monday I had a long talk with Anna, her sin at present is eating too much, however she heard and repeated some time "can I still find grace can God, will God have merci on me? She had just had a nice letter from <Ad.>* which touched her some what, but after a while she said o he will separate himself from <me>* he has all right!

Is Mr. Mögling with you?

Friday We have spent the afternoon with our people from 2. till six, pour Anna was again bad spirited, she had been so troublesome that Tante thought she could not leave with her any longer, The Dr here told tante that one should put her to Winenden. GrandMama think with tante to take each of them the girls, Anna says in her bad moments "I do not go home they will pul me in a place where I shall be beaten and ill treated. she knows that she is wicked besides her illness, but it is such confusion of humility and pride that it makes one silent feeling that the evil is deep

How is dear Marie and her house? and in Steinhouse? love to all from Uranie and myself. It is pretty cool and raining. I have just <27/7>* recieved a box full of anis brod from Ema with a letter in frensh really too nice, please much love and thanks from Uranie and self. It is a nice letter from Herman, I hope you came home well, only much to do and not agreable I wait patiently or impatiently, but prepared for what may come

 With love
