 Calw 22 Jul 77
My dear wife

I knew that Mr Bauer in T端bing where he studied with me, but have never seen him since. I pity the girl to have so little love for her mother and no liking for God's word. - Marie thanks also for your letter, Miss M端thel is with her since Saturday evening. Sophie D is quite rejoiced because Louise reports better about the father's health. - Was not that nice having the Conference all done in a hurry before you even knew of it? That makes us free for a long time I trust. There came after all not many because of the pouring rain. Jettle never sat in it for a moment, nor did Fred. look in.

I saw today Marie and Emma. Hermaennle had a little stomachache in the night, Elisele laughs already very knowingly. From Mary H you will have heard all about Julia who talks much also about her "Grospapa vaeterlicher Seits".

23. In the evening came Zahn with his elect bride a certain Louise of 24 years, daughter of Haasis the colporteur, who accompanied the new pair. In the J端nglingsverein we had to sing without Harmonium as Fried hat not given the key.

Now I have seen him and Marie H, and heard of all your doings and how Grosmama is stronger than you and runs anywhere whilst you have to spare your foot. May the rest there help you to new strength!

Christine from Boll writes rather despondingly, the labor was more than with us and she found herself unequal to perform it. Now she was put into the sewing room, which will not last long. Jettle thinks of recommending her to Pfleiderers for taking care of sick boys.

Jettle is gone to the Bahnhof for Pfleiderer and Nast, the latter will only pass through for Teinach, but Lydia Pfleiderer is expected to come hither from Neuenb端rg in the afternoon. Just now a visit from a separated wife who seeks work and somebody to take care of her 2 children! Misery enough in the world. Meanwhile goodbye
 Yours HGdt
