<ad 201.>* <Calw 8 oder 9 Juli 77>*
 <erh. 27. Juli>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Before going to Wildbad I will still write a few lines. Uncle Francis with Lucy have been here 5 days, we had joy to see them especially Lucy who wishes to be a true christian she is a humble soul making nothing of herself and ready to serve others, I also liked Francis better than I had anticipated, Uranie was delighted to have them so long, stories of old times were repeated from each side I had not much to tell as I knew less than themselves Marie s boy is again one of those extraordinary baby, Jetle could relate you for hours the beauty and extraordinary qualities that boy shall have in every thing most remarquable. The good Elise is becoming rather insignificant since Hermanle is the admiration of all. I trust dear Frederic and Emma will not feel it too much. John is very happy and pretty well in his health Carl asked whether it was good for Adelle to have a little brother as the love and attention bistowed on her till now might be drown to the little one, he makes curious remarks, he learns well better than Theodor. Uranie has at last decided to go again to Wildbad, I am rather sorry; but I must go with her, Those English girls are it seems soon coming after we had hoped to be delivered of that charge, if the Lord puts it upon us He shall also help to carry the burden. One must not look for rest in this world; but bear on quietly till the true rest be offered to us, and we joyfully shall inter in ashamed to have been often discouraged and unthankful. The text of today makes me ashamed <(Jesai 48,18)>*: "Oh si tu eusses ‚t‚ attentif … mes commandements, ta paix eut ‚t‚ comme un fleuve et ta justice comme les flots de la mer." Yes obedience God will have it in a child like spirit.

I am glad to hear that dear Tine is so happy and her hands so well, I wish Gods blessing on the bath she takes, He our Lord will hear your prayers for your dear Children and make them His own redeemed ones

With much love from Uranie and kisses to each of you
 Yours affectly JG.
