<(ad 186)>* <Calw 25 Mz 77>*
 <(erh. 14. Apr)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Many thanks for your last which as ever has given us joy, Uranie was much pleased to have a few lines from yourself direct, usually Jettle is so good as to translate your letters to her which is a treat for her, for she likes to hear news, and all our dear peopel take much troubel to talk with her in frensh and relate her that which might interest her. Papa ist so good to her speaks almost always frensh when she is present, and during her ilness prayed twice every day with her which was for us both of a great blessing, Before Uranie came to us I felt rather anxious because of the language; for she is rather suseptibel and easily discouraged, but thank God til now it is much better than I could have expected, Only lately once I percieved that she looked dark and displeased, I felt at once she had been neglected, we had had visits and the whole conversation was in German, and I am such a poor creature that I can not really relate things not even after a meeting or a talk, if papa and Jettle were not here she would be to be pitied. Now enough on this. Your dear Emmale is such joy to you all. I fancy to see you laying on the flowr and her pulling you, or opening her Mamas eyes We rejoice for you over this Gift of God. And that you have some reason to thank God for His work in some members of the congregation gives us joy; it is that especially which we ask our Lord, May He create life in many poring down His holy spirit, though it should be but on a few. May He also keep your dear children from the world, and spare you the many grieves which others have in this respect; how good has been the Lord to us in keeping our children.

Much love to dear Mama to the three daughters with kisses to all  yours JG

1PS Eben fällt mir noch was ein. 28 Mz fragt Steuerrathsschreiber in Stuttg bei mir an ob meine Söhne Herm Fried Dav noch ledig, oder wo und wann verheirathet seien, welchen Beruf sie wählten, seit wann selbständig, wo sie sich seit Volljährigkeit aufhalten? Ich beantwortete nach bestem Wissen, erwarte Forderung von 2 Mk jährlich Bürgersteuer möglicherweise längerher, (dann 1 Fl per Jahr). Frage: soll ichs zahlen? Ich schiebe jedenfalls hinaus, vielleicht fragen sie Dich selbst. Doch solltest Du nicht überrumpelt werden. Die Stuttg Steuern sind 2 und 3mal so groß als die Staatssteuern, daher sie sich jetzt auf alle mögliche Einnahmsquellen besinnen 
<Postskript zum Brf vom 2. April 77) (No 187)>*
