 Basel 4 Jul 77

My dear wife

Thanks for the news. It does not then seem that Gurnigel is the best place to go to, perhaps also too cold for my dress. So I will try Lucerne on Friday and perhaps one or two spots more before I go and look at the new guest on this earth.

Yesterday evening I saw Nast in the garden with Mr Achard. He has not yet come to the Mission house; Mr A showed him there at Mr Burkhardt's a lady that he called his "evangelist". Near her stood Miss Magirus, whom I did not know, so strong she looked and I thought her sick. She had been at Baden Baden and seems well revived. Then the Buser's, Wöhrle already on Sunday who had packed for them. Miss Emily Steudel regretted much that these 2 dear creatures go away. Saw also Marie H und Miss St. well pleased with their trip. But Dr N no more to be seen after very short greeting, he looks very bowed down and immersed into denominational interests tho' glad to have seen the Rigi sights and enjoying his stay in Switzerland. 
Insp. is glad of the 50 petents from which selection is to be made. also money for SMahr is coming in. 800 is the number of Candidates for baptism - Pfisterer complains of sinking interest in girls and boys houses. I accompanied the younger children, Sophie Müller knew the numbers up to 20 and more, but _______ for 100 she had forgotten. They had sung nicely in Church, then I came here to hear a little of the examination, but it was over when I came. Mglg sent also for you announcements of C Weigle and Dahm, but I keep them for the present. Pithon talks about China, Kittel of language questions, others about other things. It is very interesting and a little fatiguing likewise. But love to Marie and her household, what wonders you will see every day. I am nearly envious. Joh. is of course excused excellently by this toward accident. My love also to Emma. And Miss Julia's hostess charges me with greetings for her, she regretted much not to have Marie H this time. Mrs Scheffel had letters from home and seems pleased with her news, we did not tell her about Elise. Fred leads a faring life, somewhat vexed to be so letterless whilst I have 2 already. Good bye  Your H.
