 Calw 29 July 1877
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours recieved yesterday after I had sent my billet off. Afterward came Anna to tell Adieu Adolph had come to fetch her. Tante having written to Plebsts that she could scarsly live any longer with Anna, so her husband came, he found her much better then she was 4 weeks ago, he is not anxious to live with her, when she talks nonsense he tells her quietly "Dumheit" and she is quieter, one must it seems understand to treat her; She did not like fully to go, to care again for the house etc. was her fear he than said I shall care for it, so they went towards evening. Now you are in Kornthal and know many things about our new commers. which I shall hear latter.

So the old papa Dek has at last gone home, God has given him several years longer than one thought 6 years ago Mama and children will be much grieved though they expected it.

Is Frederics foot better, We have not much time more I will Grandmama and aunt as much as I can, they are a little gen‚e to come here except when we can sit in the garden; we live too high for Mama, she cannot ascend so many staircase, she does not feel better as yet, she forces herself to walk though she feels that it pains her, she walked twice in Bahnhof expecting to find Gustave who would pay a visit from Herrenalb, he has not yet come. 
Uranie is just as she was, not better as yet. I can walk better and I hope shall return stronger. I now go to see our people who are very affectionate, we would be more together if Uranie could walk

This is I suppose my last letter from here Mama et tante send yourself and to all much love, they thank you for having seen Lisette and Nathalia, asked after all of them.

Miss Oehler has now the billious fever to bath did not agree with her as it is a sort of inflamation in her knee, and joints, she is very quiet, happy; but much headach, her room is near ours, so I see her often, tomorrow I hope to hear about you all.

With much love to everyone of you
 Yours affect J. G.

I hope the Monsieur est parti depuis Kornthal, oubien Jettle aura assez de compagnie plus qu'elle n'en veut Je pense aussi que c'est indiscret de Mme White de penser … qus jours J'espŠrois qu un Mr vaudroit mieux qu'une Dame enfin j'entendrai sous peu
 Adieu … tous

By Mama came Miss Josenhans, Elise she comes often by them, drink caffee too with them, she sends love
