<ad 202>* Wildbad 12th July <1877>*
 <via Calw 16. July 77 erh. 4. Aug>*
Dear papa

Not knowing whether Plebst has written to Frederic about the Colporteur, I will only say that I spoke with Mrs. Werner about him, she did not remember his name nor I but he is a bad caractere, he was dismised by D V behaving unwise with the Children, made debts he owes still to one of the Decan 50 M. Mrs. W said Frederic would get but troubel and loose all with him. 
I hear that this morning at 5 a train has left I could not have believed that the debris which we met or saw yesterday could have been remouved so quicly: the place where the accident hapened has always been feared and one went slowly on it, but it seems the train had been delaied retarded and it went too quickly afterward so they see, Dr shönleber told Uranie that there was less evel than one had supposed.

We had a pretty good night, and injoy the good frish air in our room which has a look on the town with the fine trees and grass. Georg has just come with Mama they are going to Calmbach with the train where Emma et Anna have preceded them on foot Georg saith that he has written to Frederic about the man; but he had not heard Mrs. Werner about him so I send off these few lines. with much love to all The Plebsts are going to Stutgart next Saturday to their great regret. Anna ist still undecided to go or remain, one wishes that she would remain; she learns to make Gr Mamas hair which makes mama to hope that she will remain, today she wanted to remain in bed; but G'mama made her to get up to be ready to walk to Calmbach, she likes Mama and is obedient to Mama, who surely can lead her and help her if she is to be helped. It is very hot today, we may perhaps get rain after which every body sigh specially the peasants

We are very happy and thankful to be hear instead of being in the town 
With much love from Uranie and myself to you all in Steinhouse and dear Marie and family,
 Yours affectly
 J Gundert
