Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

6) Balm 23 Jul <50>*
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

I thank you for your 2d letter. How busy about the horse. It makes you forget that I have 2 children at Chiracal. Or did you perhaps intend to make them ride on the horse, and I am to be surprised by their appearance otherwise I cannot imagine how you could omit to mention them. All right about the horse. The weather also is looking up. I am glad Miss Kegel took a last ride - how you will miss the fellow. I hope you kept the horsekeeper formerly grasscutter to do your cow - and other - business. - On Wednesday Pauline found the Lehrtext of the 17th July and thought that may apply to you, because you have more faith. You understand she meant a particular subject for prayer. The Losungsbuch will explain. - Rickele is pretty well and plays. The weather fine. I astonish the Dr by my progress, but my tub and water you must know are unexceptionable, much better than in Chiracal. That other stuff <Leberthran>* I swallow twice a day without a sigh. Admire me a little bit! - We are all in great peace, Würth seems pleased with all. Hoch is very much in expectation how his marriage plans will turn out. Only fancy he thinks of a certain P. E. But it is a great secret! You understand. Very much big secret! I showed him what I had written and he blushed to the ears, modest young man!

Albrechts are going to Hubly for a few days. About reports etc he has written to the Committee, that these things are very difficult, and nearly impossible to him because they hinder him from working. - I see Walker's children on my morning walks, told the boy how badly he treated Mr Hebich but he would not acknowledge it, his sister however affirmed all I said very earnestly. They are nice children but look a little sickly. 
I haven't as yet seen anybody else paid no visit nor received any. Mrs Foulis is kept in the house by rheumatism it seems.

Now kiss the children for me. Give my regards to Miss Kegel and tell Missy, Ebenez's sister etc that they must continue to give you joy and comfort you during my absence. If Missy writes to me she will get an answer. But let it be no nonsense a question if she has any - about Bible, nature or her own heart. Dear M is pretty well today
 Yours HG.

