Rev. Mr. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

20 Mang. 19 Aug 50
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

Already 5 weeks have passed since I said farewell to you and the dear children: I begin to have some "Homeache" but what can I do poor fellow - I must content myself with having at least a tolerable place of exile. This morning your letter with the enclosure from Cugnen to Nath. has come to hand Mögl writes "Es ist mir wohl dass ich aus Mang. fort bin" yet can he not conceive the thought, that he will not return there, but is sure of his willingness to be led any how. He finds that since his last journey the old man has received several knocks and the new man is growing in spite of the hindrances. I feel rather lonely since M. is gone: but should not have been able to speak much even to M if he had been here, for I had again a sore throat for several days: and feel only now relieved after having (for the first time) vomited twice this night, which the Dr thinks one of the best signs possible, as it relieved me of a great deal of phlegm*. - You seem half offended with what I said of the nonexistence of fatigue. But I did not doubt your right, or even your duty of guarding and warning me, only I felt that I had to make the confession, that really I do hardly any thing and cannot even account to myself why I am so lazy - sitting hardly 1-2 hours in a day, and walking bathing or lying the other time. - I am quite convinced that your repugnance to hearing those unbelieving women pray from the heart does not originate from any Dissenter-feeling. I have the very same objection to it and should by far prefer that they either speak a prayer adapted to their case, but made by a Christian, or that they only join in a prayer offered up by a believer. Eunice is certainly one degree safer for feeling that she cannot pray like them. As for Claudia I am glad if she be once excluded from the Lord's supper to think a little about the imaginations she has formed concerning her piety. I wish Louise could join her husband: is he still at Aden? or is there a prospect of his coming to fetch her?

As for David I am now and then sending short notes of him to Mörike, extracted from your letters, to keep M. au courant. I wonder what he will say to the wish for a wife. I think it a serious point, as the question of his returning to the hills may quite depend on it. I shall ask Mör. if they thought of it beforehand, and if they had any person in view for him. Also what they would say to it, if such an event came to pass a little quicker than they made their calculations. Perhaps Buhl will give him not enough to live with a wife unless he be able by labour to earn his bread: and I must say this is to my idea a very correct view of the case. On the other hand one might hope that he would sooner become able to stand alone if he had a good wife, and his labour might thereby be rendered valuable to the Mission. However that be you will take care lest there be any connexion formed or even consulted upon by his friends, before we have an order from the Nilg how to act in such a case.

I am glad Mrs Ir. sent something to the children as I take it for a sign that he is somewhat softened. He wrote to me such a rude letter, that tho' I answered him mildly enough, I mentioned that I looked upon this letter as a trial to restore confidence and in case of its not succeeding think it best to drop the correspondance. You have no idea how angry they are with Heb and Mögl and because of my friendship for them I come in for a fair share of abuse. But this shall not prevent me from being thankful for the arrangement which the Committee have made in our affairs and I am sure after some time all the brethren will discover a change for the better. - Bühler leaves now the settlement of the Kaity question to Mögl. alone which is also a progress after he had made a good deal of confused business. 
I am thankful for the blows you give to the 2 youngsters for eating ______ and for their other disobediences I hope they profit of it and when I come show quite a new spirit of obedience and readiness to oblige. I shall soon write to Halliday - but you know I must take care lest I fatigue myself too much, therefore I proceed so slowly in carrying out my good intentions. Now peace be with you and all in the house!
 Yours HG
 <Mangalore 19 Aug 50.>*

This is a fine Selam to my dear Frederick ______ who has a whip in the hand - and to my dear Vau, who mounts the horse ___________ and gives his _______________ to Fanny ______ This here is Fanny and I hope my boys are very good and like Ee pay and Arge pay <(large prayer)>*
 So writes Papa Abba

