10. Balmatha 30 Jul 50
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

This morning early I got your letter of the 28th and am quite delighted to have indeed you so far to write regularly. I am sure in the end you feel yourself that it is quite a different thing to write now and then, and to keep up a correspondence. In the latter case you do not mind so much what you put on the paper. You write before you weigh if the subject you write deserve to be put on paper - and thats just the sort of letters I like to read. - What you say of prayer is indeed true of all Christians. Rieger once shows why so many prayers are not heard though offered up in a measure according to the mind of God: viz the Spirit groaning within us wants perhaps something else just at the moment when we with heart and tongue pray for what appears to us most desirable: and it is only when Spirit and heart pray together for the same thing, that we have our petitions. So you may wish me to be well - but of course every wife likes to have her husband in good health: you may wish me to be able to minister - in this also there may be some selfishness, some narrow view not altogether to the glory of God: but where we pray that he be glorified by life and death, by action or by rest, by us or by others, and pray this in the Spirit, the Lord in his own moments shows also that we may pray for the particular object we just have on our heart, and then Spirit runs before and heart after and the petition is granted. Thus at least it appears to me. - You ask if the body of Christ came from above. My answer is, I fear to be dogmatical about it: certainly he was the Lord from heaven (1 Cor. XV): but all these terms and especially that of the 2d Adam appear to me to refer principally to Christ risen from the dead ("Thou art my son - today have I begotten thee - Acts 13,33). As for his birth from Mary we know he was of the seed of David, a Jew from Juda, an Isra‰lite from Abraham, and it is of infinitely greater importance to us to hold him as an Highpriest taken from among his brethren and sharing their woes and whole miserable estate, than to speculate on that what in His birth already may have been different from ours. So that I should always say his body was quite like ours - muscles, bones, nerves, blood, skin etc. altogether inherited from the fathers, his face a familylikeness to that of David or Judah, his manners and movements those of a Shemite, not of an European, - yet all this without sin. - I dreamt to night I was with you and Möglg in Lyons and nearly lost you in the streets, having gone to the highest hill in the city, where you could not ascend. However after some anxious hours we found each other. I awoke after it and ascribe my dreaming to the peppermint I swallow with the oil. - I was delighted with your description of Vau seeking me, praying in my room or lying with Frederick and singing. May the Lord keep the little fellows from all harm, also the little stranger that is to join them. - Sister W. complains of the bad treatmt of the girls at Dharwar. They are managed as hardened criminals - and were treated the same way for years hence "they did not even say Salam to Mrs Lehner when she left Dh. But after having been 2 months with Mrs W they took farewell with tears, on their return to Mrs A. <Albr.>* - Maishel in Africa seems to be a very poor Brother. You know he left the station to return home and wrote to Lehmann "the Committee may congratulate themselves that he stayed so long (since 1847) in Africa. Lehmann is full of joy to come to Deggeller after having murmured at first, that only so small a work is confided to him. But he will soon have enough of Degg. The latter is really a disagreeable person - looks so childlike that I always hope the best of him, but there is no humility on the bottom. - I hear that the miner (Eyler) has made himself known in Bombay as a cheat, also he discovered that he has become a Muhomedon long ago. - There is a note from <Collector>* Maltby to Möglg "Most happy are we to be among you all again and one of my first visits will be to you and your brethren." This is promising well. Now goodby and my the Lord keep bless and cherish you all
 Yours HG.
Kisses to Feddy and Vau

