36 <17 od 18 Sept 50>*

My dear wife

I hope you will be so much pleased with the inside as hardly to wish for any addition. But I have still one bit of news more. Mögling is much better, makes walks of 7-8 miles, sits 6 hours with the Committee members, and bathes 3 times per day. A Bath in Bang. he says is something specifically different from one in Mang. He was weighed at Palhally by the Groves - 230 ______. He is much pleased with Miss. Cryer, a simple Wesleyan Missy - as for Garrett he could wish to have him for the press and other work of the kind, he is a great genius in that sort of business, but their Miss[ionar]y prospects not much better in 1850 than in 1843

Würth has today gone with the big boys to Bolma, the Catechist station South of the Mang river.
 Now farewell
 Peace with you
 Yours HG




1Br Gundert
 12 Sept 1850

Lieber Bruder

Dem HErrn sei Lob und Dank jetzt ist Alles vorbei! wir haben seit gestern Abd 9 1/2 Uhr ein gesundes starkes Knäblein - Pauline had long pains but not particularly strong ones. she was in pain exactly 24 hours before the water came away - and then two hours more. The child came very quickly and surprised us all by its lusty cries. It is large and well made. After the birth P. enjoyed nice rest - (occasionally she had also been able to sleep a little between the pains - but had had much trouble also from vomiting etc) but the afterbirth was troublesome - the Dr waited 7 hours and then took it away. There was an adhesion about the size of 1/2 Rupies. Now thank God even the last piece of business is over and P. is put to bed - and sleeps I trust comfortably at this moment. Mrs Müller has been with her last night and Mrs Albr. the night before. both very kind. The Dr says everything is right now. P. lost not too much blood -

The child is to be called Charles Christian Hartmann like my father - so receive it into your avuncular affection and also pray for it and its mother. Tell Hochs and all Balmatthe of our joy and give our special love to dear Julie.
 Yours ever most affly
 GW.

Please packe die andren Briefe ein und schicke sie fort - den an Mrs Gr. gesiegelt

