Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

27 Mang 2 Sept <50>*1
 <Monday>*
Dear wife

I cannot help beginning my letter with a word of pity for the dear people who have to set out for the Frenchrocks in such a horrible weather. This Sunday was as wet as any day in the Monsoon. I hope however disagreeable for those who go to the Chapel, the rain has been welcomed by you on account of your own and the children's health: and that by this time they give you less trouble by night. - I now send the goldwatch tomorrow - with 2 pictures for Freddy and Vau, for the silver watch requires longer time for mending: but the golden one is in an excellent state. I wonder that you say you have no other watch. Have you not that which the Comm. bought for you. But if it be broken, send it likewise. I shall manage to get all mended before I go ____ as to bring it along. - I am glad that Fred. gets again rid of such dirty stuff, and I hope that at the hour needed a good Musquito will not be wanting to prick that abscess. I have one boil at the elbow, others on the right leg and at the same time expectorations of matter which relieve the chest very much. Though instructing Sham R. regularly I am feeling daily better. What I meant about a resolution to speak in a meeting or so, was only intended to take place if I should be convinced of its necessity. So you need not think that I volunteer upon it without a plain assurance of its being the will of God. The other day I read of old Simeon in Cambridge, how in his last illness he once said "God cannot do any thing that would not be liked by me" - also that he prayed for repentance more than for pardon - for the latter is indeed relief to himself, but the first more necessary for the glory of God. Religion seemed to him to consist altogether in a state of broken heartedness which is thankful for the least of God's mercies. I conceived a great love for the man and thought I should like his acquaintance along with that of so many other saints of old and modern times. -

Saturday evening Lehm. went off with Ammann to learn Tulu at Mulki. A. was very nice and anxious to keep up fellowship. He gave a lesson to Deggeller who I think listens more to him than to any other.

In Dharwar nothing new up to the 28th of August, except that Gottfd has a strong cold. - Greiner has returned from Utchila in the neighbourhood of which a new person is to come out of heathenism in a place hitherto untouched by the light. It is not yet decided, but still causes some stir among the population. - I am glad to hear that Obrien and Paul <Ittir>* are going out to the Northward of Cheracal in order to preach. May they find hearers with some patience.

12 o'clock. Müller cannot give the watch today. It goes well hanging, but he must yet try it lying for a day, so tomorrow I may promise to send it without fail, if nothing happens in the meantime. M. is quite enchanted with this watch it is one of the very best he has seen. - Jeremiah from Cann. has been a little unwell, but is quite restored. He wishes always to be treated in some particular way, but it would hardly do to indulge him, because he takes every kindness for a new proof of his superior merits and unparalleled genius!

Stanger after all wishes Mögl. to provide him with a wife in this country, but it must be an European. He seems to have given up all hopes that the one from Switz. will again have compassion on him. Strange had heard from C. Müller of my illness and had said some words as if there was no recovery for me in India. At least so St. writes, but the Lord knows better. To him be all given over, and He will care for us. Hoch and Mrs Gr join in Selams to you all.

Anderson has just been here to congratulate us on Sh's coming to join the Church. I propose that Gr. should baptize him next Sunday and am preparing him meanwhile, in the hope that Gr will do it.
 With love to all
 Yours HG.

Deines vom Samstag erhalten Dank.

