Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, pp

<22>* Chiracal Saterday <7 Sept 50>*

Dear papa

Yesterday Friday came the watch for which many thanks My thanks to Mr Muller too The children were pleased with the pictures chiefly Vau 
Miss wrote to you that she had been unwell and was bettrer, but again she is not well at all, on Thursday Mr Hebich thought it would be good if she would take one of his doses which she did on Friday, this has worked her terribly, it is not yet over, she is fevrish and feels sickly. Our two boys are well thank God. When you have news from the W. let me know. Mrs FitzGerald has got a little girl

After the preaching I send Coogn to Anjercandy to bring some Castor oil and vin‚gar. The little Ammima* is again not very well. The big boy of Nathanael crowling everywere, does not allow his mother to cook even her food she must at his command continually walk with him, like many others it will be a spoiled child, though he laughs always. When Hebich come with the whip near him during prayer he still laughs Paul calls prayer "am" I suppose he means to say amen, if we forget to pray before the meales he joins his hands and say am, even before he eats his own soop alone. Many thanks for yours of the 4th. I am sorry to hear about dear Moegling. Is not the Cholera at an end now in the jail? here one does not speak of it much. I am rejoiced at the good news about your voice. Poor Samuel he has already many children dead I think. May God work in her. You remember the poor Joshua brother of Martha, Chinapen, the other day he throw himself in the well of the Roman padri by whom he was kept for some time after three days he was taken up, some say that he did it in a fit of fever. May this also speak to poor Marth and her husband.

We are all pretty well. Vau wishes very much to go in the bandy as his brother. Now I must finish to let the boy take this to Can. Many people stay here to day Juda his wife, they are not very well. Rachel, Maria who has fever Francis of coarse, Miss too

Good bye love to Mrs Greiner regards to the Brethren
 Yours J. Gundert

