Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

11._____<12>* 3 Aug <1850>*

My dear wife.

I am sorry you were so shocked by my words to Br H. but I can not much regret them seeing they have brought me a very fine letter from him. But I had to smile when you called it foudroyant, then really you must have understood no joke. I never had the least complaint to make about your diligence in writing, and am not aware that I said anything except that I praised myself a little in order to keep you zealous and determined to remain diligent. - Yours of the 1st I received yesterday evening, just after I had sent off a letter to Heb. I waited in vain for directions about the Newspapers and think I will send them whether required or not. Dear Heb. will forward them to Tell. - I give nothing to the grasscutter but his Batta: nor to Nath but his food which he has with the Catechist scholars. If any thing more be required I detract it from a future salary, but do you pay their wives what you owe the men. What to give to the horsekeeper I do not know as yet, but will settle when I hear from you if you agreed about a salary, and whether his uncle is to receive anything for him. Hitherto I have hardly used the horse, but perhaps it will serve Mögl for part of his way. - I am sorry you are troubled with native Doctors and their nonsense, but hope you will be kept from troublesome illnesses during the time of my absence. - Bösinger I hear has asked Lechler to take him and Lechler is so stupid as to consent in case the Committee like it. All this is as yet a secret. Bös. is troubled by ambition. He cannot bear to stand under any man, nor confess that anything he did is wrong. - The meeting of Thursday at Andersons was held by Mögl. I also went there to hear. Maltby spoke a good deal to me about Mrs Anderson in Engld and other old friends. I think he indeed seeks the truth, tho' not very hotly. Mrs White was also there but I did not speak with her having to salute also Mrs Cummin for the first time. It lasted a little too long for me and I am so unaccustomed to sit with uncovered head. However I had chosen a snug corner and after a day felt quite myself again. - About the 7th or 8th letters must go from here and from Cann to Madras (for Europe). Have you anything ready. I fear it will not do any more to send them to me for inclosure. But send off through dear Hebich whatever you have ready. - The Chaplain <Kinloch (?)>* is suspected of being the author of a letter signed Phocion in the Spectator published at Madras, wherein our Mission is attacked. I have not seen it, but heard of it from Calicut. - Dear children I hope they remain happy and playful, and become more fond of praying than they are. When you write next, give also Selams to Mrs Gr. as she is with us: that you condoled with the illness of her child I have long ago told her, altho' uninformed of it by you. At present they are all well, but Rickele is somewhat like Mariele - bad humours plenty! In love recommending you to our Lord and Saviour Yours HG.

