To the Editor of the Bby Times1


Nro 4 <18 Septb 50>*

Sir

In your issue of the 28th Aug you have inserted a letter full of accusations agst the Agents of the Basle Ev. Miss[ionar]y Soc. We have ever been ready to give the fullest information on our principles and proceedgs to those who take an interest in Missions and therefore we are under no apprehension of being hurt by an anonymous article in a Newspaper. Yet it seems to be due to our Christian Fds at a distance from our stations and due to the Character of our Mission which has been attacked as a body, due even to the Chrcter of an English Newspaper wh I conceive to be an organ for the dissemination of truth and not of malicious falsehood to take some notice of the Article in question. I therefore deny first of all that any secrets have lately exploded in connexion with the Mission - we have no secrets to hide from the public eye if it be otherwise let your Corrspdt publish those secrets. I farther deny the special charges "that one of our number intruded upon 2 Ladies and was ejected by Lieut L. that we have purchased any children or young females, that a Civilian of M is the Author of an Article in the Madr Sp. in reply to the letter signed Phocion. I likewise deny the insinuation of shameful practices allowed in establishmts under our supervision (the best proof to the Contrary is that when a deplorable case like the one mentioned in the letter of your Corresp. takes place we publish it in our Report, from wh. our accuser has all his information) I deny the charge of attractg Converts by the practice of feeding and supportg them (and how does this Charge agree with the other that we have no Converts at all?) and lastly I deny that we are hostile to the Church of Engld. There are many influential members of this Church, and some of its revered Bishops at home and abroad who can bear witness to the Contrary But we are opposed to all perversions of the faith once delivered to the Saints and conseqtly among other evil tendencies of our time to Tractruism and Popery - and no wonder then that both are exceedgly wroth with us.

I take this opportunity to deny likewise that any of our number or even any person in any way connected with our Mission, has written the letter inserted in the Madr Spect of Aug 28th with the Signature A Laborer, a letter evidently intended to appear as if it had been written by one of the Miss[ionarie]s (for it pretends to be dated from Belmt the name of one of the Miss Houses at M.) but really calculated to injure us by a defense more obnoxious than the worst attack

I repeat it: none of us has written that letter and it is really hard upon us if our enemies make the sorest thrusts at us disguised as members of our own body. - In several of the letters wh have lately appeared agst our Mission the Christian public is counselled to withdraw its liberal support from us because we are foreigners. I am sure this argumt needs only to be repeated in order to be duly appreciated by those whose hearts God has hitherto inclined to give us the right hand of fellowship. - Our assailents have hitherto screened themselves under the vizor of anonymity. I herewith give my name to you Mr Editor and am ready to answer any enquiry which Fds of the cause of Miss[ion]s or other lovers of truth may think fit to make through you, though I cannot promise again to answer attacks of anonyms or pseudonyms Corrspdts in the Columns of Newspapers

I am Sir, with great esteem
 Yours A German Miss[ionar]y

