Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, paid








2. Becal 16 July 50
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

If you have received what I wrote four hours ago you will be highly pleased with my diligence to write though I myself have no chance to get a word from you on the road. This then is Nro 2. <N 1 fehlt.>* The bearers (Nath without asking me ordered at once 12 - so I shall have that number till Mang.) came running and jumping with me. I wished they were more sedate - but they soon came to their journey's end, for I will pass the night here and close this in Casergudi where there is again a sort of Tappal. From thence there are yet 3 stages and much as you love to hear from me you must make up your mind for a long silence, for you would not like me to make a Tappal where there is none. Well I have here taken a wet sheet (in the boat one could not move, so I left it there undone) and feel quite fresh, ready to make 2 stages more if there was necessity. But then Nassani Ayen has not slept much last night (my coffre for a bed) and he is just now much delighted in making the first fire on our road - not as if I did want it much, for bread and water would suffice. On the boat however I emptied cream and pudding and am now working my way into the loaf. You may be sure I am far from starving, I find I have more appetite than at home. The view of the Country is also beautiful and I fancy the change of climate is already doing good to me. But this is enough for today. I will finish the letter in the ants-bangalow (do you remember in 1843 with Frederick and Marie). And wishing you good night I pray that God keep you all without harm in body soul and spirit. Amen
17 July. It is about 10 o'clock I arrived in Casergudi the last bangalow, near which there is a Tappal. If I was well I would now hurry to Mang. but I feel that slow and sure is now my way and you must not expect letters too soon. Before Thursday night I shall certainly not arrive at Mang. perhaps as the stages are longer I make only one in a day. The weather most beautiful - yesterday evening and this morning no rain and in the night only one short shower. - Nath tells me the Mapla of the boat was very angry with him. You know that after all their promises we had just the boat in which Heb went. So I was shut up as in a cage, tho' they had promised a larger one. There were 3 men and not more: nor did we arrive quicker than Heb rather slower. For this I paid 4 Rs, but the M. was outrageous with N. Of course Our people encourage them with their modesty. Joseph had not sense enough to demand a cover for the coffre etc. So this only, that you know how it stands in case they want to give you trouble.

But I will close it, lest I loose a day Just now the Tappal passed me from Cann to Mang. It has perhaps our homeletters. Well I shall not lose patience in waiting for them. With love to all, kisses to dear Frederick and Vau - who I hope is enjoying some evenings the horse his large ___________, with my remembrance to you especially of whom I daily find some new gift (now f. i. a cake under the cup)
 I remain
 Yours HG

