Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

14. Mangal 7 Aug 50
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday eveng I received your home letters, a mighty big present, for which accept my best thanks. Of course I take them for a letter to me: and even for a good one - everything is just in time. This evening they will be sent to the Post. - I quite agree with all you wrote. Two points I do not understand "voisins qui depuis sur le mur - epient le temps" is that = dessus? The other is "chere Marie et moi sommes gardiennent par tour" Is this verb 3 pers. plur. or participle? But other wise the letter is written with a great degree of accuracy. Veuil (instead of veuille) prochin for prochain … (for a) Unice (for Eunice) etc. are points which I have corrected. The girls made several mistakes f. i. 6 Oct 1848 for 47 I wrote Conoren without x: such at least is my impression from former letters. - I am surprized the Comm. sent that order to Marie: for I wrote never anything to that effect. She must have caused it herself by reporting that I wished her once to report about the school and that she did not think it her duty, or whatever she may then have written. I for my person shall not write to the <Frauen>*Committee, until Sarasin writes to me directly: but I will do all in my power to give our own Comm. every news of the school. - Mögl. dictates to me a history of the purchase of Kaity: but it does raise his pulse to 99 per minute.

Gottfrd has begun his meetg in the chapel. The Colonel sent plenty of drummers bandboys etc and they expect a real blessing on it. The English will illuminate the Chapel on those evenings. Gottfd preaches on the Galatians - Yesterday evening Mögl held his meeting - very fine. Maltbys are present. It would be a pity to let it fall to the ground when he goes. I sang with the Dr out of the same hymnbook - a great surprise to him to hear my voice! Mrs Foulis not quite well. Lehm. will soon come, we think. Gottfd thinks him a very vain brother, but Pauline thinks better of him. In love  Yours HG.
Einen schönen Gruss von Mögl and Hoch
Selams to my boys: and let them continue to sing from all their heart! 
