Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

11 Balmatha 1 Aug 50
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Thanks for yours of the 30th which I received yesterday evening, I am glad to hear you have had a blessed Lords supper together with those new souls. That David <Sany>* was excluded is indeed grievous to me. But I hope the Lord may still have given him some blessing at Cannanore, though he was thought unworthy of closer fellowship. We expect him soon here and I will try to make him think the best of that depression. - Miss White offered to give lessons in English to Hoch, but as Würth would not join in it, he declined the offer, being afraid of undertakg it alone. Miss W. is supposed to have an eye on Mr Coplestone and would in that case become next neighbour to the Mission. I say this not for spreading farther the rumour, but that you may know it. - In health I am going on well enough, also Mögl seems to me improving only he must take care of all excitement. Yesterday they had District conference (Greiner Mgl. Ammann). There Gr. spoke how hard it was to be obliged to obey the Comm. etc Amm. went farther and said it might do to be ruled by the Comm. but by Hebich and Möglg - that was the grievance! M passed it over in silence. - Huber has not been ashamed to look through Lehmann's private journal, which he found among his books and finding there some reference to Mögl having conferred with Lehm. about his coming to this coast, he quickly writes it to Dh. (Albr. I suppose) in order to prove M. a liar because he said that he did not call Lehm. over. What a shame for us thus to labour for no purpose but finding reasons to despise and hate each other. Lehm. has now given it in writing that Mögl. had not called him. - Pauline expects her confinement this month - prepares cradle etc. She seems in good spirits Gottfd often disheartened. - Hiller has written for once to M. a little more quietly. He has been much grieved by the departure of some worthless people about whose arrival he had made much noise. - Sanderson from Mysore writes most friendly to M. he will come to meet him at Mercara. - With Bös. I shall have nothing to do. If you have watches to mend, send them: but as for work in wood or metals I prefer by far native workmen to Bös. he understands nothing. - My love to the children. I hope Vau does improve in obedience and Fred. in temper: and that they both will be very good boys the nearer their compagnon is on his way to them. I however shall come there with the grace of God and hope to be present when he makes his appearance.

As for Louise I hope she will soon be married to that man. It will be the best also for the children. We have here prospects of marriages Hoch has applied for a wife, and among Würth's chief reasons against coming was also that he had written for a wife for Hoobly. We hope, the Comm. may still send it. Now grace be with you! Regards to Miss Kegel and Selams to our people
 Yours HG.

Nath has written a laughable letter to Arab threatening her with his anger for not writing - dont tell her, but try to get the inclosed from Joseph and Arab.

