Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

7.) Balm. 25 July 50
 <Thursday>*

My dear wife

Yesterday evening I received your well written letter of Sunday - indeed one sees that when you take the necessary time for it you can write very fine letters. I am glad the figs begin to appear and hope that before long Frederick will get plenty to eat. By the way, if you could get seed of the hedge round the Tellichgarden (_______________ is the name Salomon's song 1,14) I should like that much for the hedge around our flowergarden. It will be easily obtained, let Cugnen seek a little. -

Mr Parker from Madura sent 50 Rs for the Mission, I thanked for it. let Hebich write it into his book and give him the chit enclosed. But NB take care lest it be lost. - As for Temah I hope she will rally if kept out of wet - perhaps your pomegranatepowder would be the best for her. - Nath. is pretty well initiated into his duties with me, and does his business with some despatch. - Foulis comes nearly daily and is pleased with my progress. M. is rather satisfied with his sleep - also his pulse is beating less - but his hands appear to him as sticking in gloves. - Mrs Buhrer wrote a nice letter to him: one of her boys is a Brother Zahner, and the other a little Wunderlich. Does Vau still remember me? I have daily bones plenty - and plantain skins without number! all thrown away to the __________'as. How useful they would be at Cheracal for dogs cats kids and goats, even if Vau did not claim them first. My dinner I eat from a dish for mutton or for a goose, where the rice etc is cooled very quickly. - We are happy together. Gr's child well again - our prayers are not in vain, they will come before God at the proper moment! Continue to believe and to pray with praising - and you will see and rejoice. Love to the children, Miss Kegel Jacob Joseph Missy Aline etc the Lord with you
 Yours HG

1... - received
 S He

