Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

31 Mang 7 Sept 1850
 <Saturday>*
Dear wife

So again a boil full of matter is burst, and one source of inquietude got over. So it will be often with us, God lifts us up, he touches a wound point, we cry for a moment, but then we find that he has helped us out of an anxiety. That's fine that Fred. prays against his eating ________ and ________: and I am glad he learns to speak whole petitions. Thanks to Vau that he has identified me with Hoffaker, this is very flattering to me. - Why dont you tell Hebich to send his watches here. I could bring them when I return, but if they lie long during the Monsoon it will be an age before one can mend and clean them. - Just now I received Heb's letter in which he tells me that his 3 watches are here. Of course I immediately stormed against Müller, and he has promised to do what he can, but he must wait at least with part of them till he receives new supplies of instruments etc for completing what is wanting in them. - Heb gave me fine news of the 2 boys I am glad to hear that Vau is so pulled down into humility. - I congratulate the Fitzgeralds to their present joy. I hope they will be thankful in the recollection of this year. Saturday I was present 3 hours at the fine examination of Hoch's english School Anderson wrote to him, that though formerly he saw now and then cleverer boys in the school, that is to say 3 or 4, he never saw a greater number of boys who had learnt so much. He is evidently much improving. He formerly nearly confined himself to teach the first class. But last year chiefly also after our discussions about it, he settled to become the teacher of the Bible to all the classes, and he has evidently gained great influence among the younger boys in an especial manner. The youngest class are taught by pictures of paradise etc in which they learn to call things and events by their English names. They enjoyed all this in a very visible manner. The Maltby's, Mrs White Foulis etc were present too.

Sunday noon, Sham Rao was baptized John in Tulu. He answered in Canarese the Apostle's creed, as he only understands Tulu but does not speak it. His officer <Searle>* is much annoyed with his becoming a Christian he writes very cross letters to me and tells John he must accompany him into the districts, for Christianity does not consist in always praying and reading the Bible, but in doing one's business etc We try to keep up the connexion between them until he pass his examination, that he may not complain of being disappointed by us, but perhaps after all he will make some noise before John is got quite free from him. I was today with Anderson and heard from him of a foolish article written against our Mission by the Rom. Cath. schoolmaster <Fitzgerald>* of this place. Hebich is also mentioned in it as having intruded on the Leggett's here which Anderson calls a downright falsehood. L. is said to have ejected him from his bangalow. What a joy the devil has to lie! Oh may the Lord give us many conversions while men pronounce our labours fruitless!

Weigle is somewhat dejected: none of the friends there seem anxious to help them. Bell, their former friend, is now forbidden by the Puseyite chaplain (Churchill by name) to attend their preaching. - I gave 2 Rupees to the grasscutter for month of August. but you may detract it from Sept if need be.

Perhaps I find a Pattimar to be with you before the end of the month. But all this as God may direct. My voice becomes daily stronger. All your letters I sent off on Saturday also some of my own to Papa, Josenhans etc. Now farewell. Peace be with you! With Christian love to Miss Kegel etc  Yours affly HG

