40. <24/9/50>*

My dear wife,

Yesterday 23d Sept I received your note of Sunday, for which many thanks. I did not think that your time was so near as you seem to apprehend in your note to Pauline: nor did I think that you would be "mal a ton aise et ne pouvais t'asseoir" and that this is the reason of your writing "si shortement" (very good french, this n'est ce pas?) - If only I could order Pattimars according to my liking, but none as yet is ready to go. I should have taken the horse, but I must confess I do not like to trust myself to it. As soon as we substituted again grain for ______ the fever returned - as for a palankin, I detest it, seeing it hurts me more than any thing. So I wait quietly and trust our Good Lord will in due time prepare the best way for me nor will I be impatient, as the delay is not caused by me or other men. - Pauline wrote a word to Mögl - their boy looks quite like Gottfried, and knows already famously how to sigh, especially after having drunk his full. - I thank Francis for helping Cugn's wife. I fear half, you have also been there? - This evening John will go with Hoch, the first 2 stations by river boat. Yesterday his officer told him "your parents have not educated you with the design that you should become a Christian. Why did you disappoint them." He asked, if the children of a harlot try to be better than their mother, what is their fault. To this no answer. But he is cheated of his reward. That will be a good lesson to him to cease* from men. Tell Cugnen I remember him and his wife before the Lord and pray that thro' the blood of Christ their death may become as easy as that child* - As for Mrs Hayes watch - it cannot be mended, even the last sent "spirals" are too big - in a month more he may get the proper Nro. In Madr and Bombay they are not to be had in that size.
 Love to you
 Yours HG.

