Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

32. Mang 11 Sept 50
 <Wednesday>*
Dear wife

The boy who took my last to the post, brought me yours of the 8th (Sunday). I wondered why you had marked it Bearing, at least it will be charged to this station's postaccount, - or did you wish it to be paid at Cannanore? Your sign on the letters is ________ imitated as closely as possible. Now does that mean pd or bearing, I at least am afraid to decide? - I saw from the newspapers that a young Mr West died at Manantoddy. I fit is Mr W's nephew, give him my condolence, occasion offering. - So Missy has been ill, it will perhaps be best for her in such days to fast, taking nothing than a little Canji. She must also learn to say "am" like Vau before she take Canji or medecine. Without God's blessing nothing will do us good. - The Cholera it seems is now dying out here. - Joshua's case is awful. I wish Martha would awake a little. Here the Tamil people have very little spiritual food. There is a service in Tamil, when Deggeler is here, he has it interpreted to them by Elieser. But there is no superintendence or looking after them. Mrs Cummin of course does her best. - Yesterday I was again at the Tuesday's meeting. Würth explained a chapter of Micah, but in such a dry manner that I thought, people might as well stop away. The remarks he had written together were altogether too high that is too little practical. This morning Anderson paid us a visit and wished Wurth to send a notice round that in future there will be no more Tuesday meetings. The Chaplain has announced a Wednesday's evening service, and kills 2 crows with that one stone viz. the Tuesday and Thursday meetings. There is indeed nobody here to keep up that sort of work and it is just as well to let it go as to maintain it against wind and tide. So I think these connexions of the English with the Mission will cease until the Chaplain goes away. He will go to Mercara to build a Church there, and hopes then to stay more with the pioneers and other persons who make up that station than with the few gentleman's families here. But I think Anderson was rather glad to have an opportunity for giving up the meetings just now, because in an article of the Bombay Times he is accused of having become altogether our partisan and turned against the English Church. The author of it, a great liar, is the English schoolmaster <Fitzgerald>* of the R. Catholics.

No news from Mögl I am sorry to say. I wait rather with some anxiety. But possibly he may have be detained on his road to Bangalore by other causes than his illness.

Hoch left us with Degg. yesterday morning to make a short tour to Moolky and Utchila. His boys (Ebenezer, John etc) go along with him. He wished me to go too, but I was afraid of meddling with such a large company and will perhaps try the tour next week. But now farewell with all the dear people around You
 Yours affly
 H Gundert

