34 14th Sept <50>*
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

It is today the 14th Sept and tomorrow our brother Adolph is to be confirmed. Theodor also will then pay a visit at Stuttg. So they will have a fine day of it, and they wish us to remember them particularly on this day before the Lord. - Yesterday the steamer passed by here and gave us the Newspapers but no letters of importance. Hoch had one from his parents they hope he may succeed in his wishes. No news from the Mission house. Yours of the 10th arrived just when sending off my last - I hope Missy is well by this time and that she will try to keep well - better fasting than taking much medecine! - I only told Nath that his boy began to teeth and trouble his mother. The horse is just unwell, they say he had also fever in ascending the Ghauts under Mögl's load. I hope a few days will suffice to restore him.

I do not wonder much about the mishap that befell David <Sany>*. Poor fellow! May he learn to distrust himself and begin to believe in the power of the Holy Ghost! - I had written to Mör. some of your details concerning him. Now he says, his private view is, that a marriage might perhaps help him on, and cure him of his Dharma thoughts, but he does not know what their conference would say to it. - Buhrer will now stop till Nov 1851. He is still not quite recovered, suffering now and then from pain in the stomach. Of Buhler he mentions that yesterday the ice broke between them, that means that they will have a warmer season now. - Lehm. seems to be exceedingly well pleased with Ammann and his whole situation there. Hoch returned from a visit he had made with his boys to Utchila and Mulky. Ebenezer walked it very well and is to describe these four days for the benefit of his sisters I wonder if he will also write down that he got some raps for never covering his head when walking in the sun, be it in the very noontime. - They say that Deane will return to Cannanore when he has served his time on the hills. - Graul has answered at last "he sends allerherzlichste Grüsse an Sie alle, Fraeulein Kegel nicht zu vergessen, und noch unsern freundlichsten Dank für alles Gute was wir in Ihrem Hause genossen. Ihr ergebenster K. Gr" He learns Tamil and will now preach once in it. Then he goes to Ceylon. I hope you are still keeping up your patience. poor Pauline wrote to Mr M ______________________________ it will not come (just as in Aden)  Now farewell
 Yours HG

