Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

<39>* Mangalor 22 Sept 50
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening I received yours of the 19th. It seems you think I may already be on the Pattimar or on the road, and your letters may become useless, otherwise you would give me a little more of news. Never a word of the Hallidays or Mrs Wilkenson etc. But I will not quarrel, on the whole you have done more than I expected. I am glad Vau is so happy and likes Hebich and Cannanore. It is fine you immediately agreed to take the sage femme. Of course she will also bring some trouble: but surely it will be proper for you to try once what a European can do in the hour of need. - Don't be concerned about the dear boys at home. Of course we pray for them and know that they know not themselves. I should not like them to talk much of sin and Saviour - except I was sure it was a reality in them. Marie I fear has a temptation in the manner of education she gets, to speak much and force herself perhaps into feelings, which have not as yet become natural to her. The consequence of which is, that she for a season falls again out of the roll of the pious child which she at other times upholds pretty nicely. The Lord will bless them in Christ Jesus!

I could have liked you to send dear Jette's letter with the others. Now perhaps it will be best if you send it direct to Pauline with a few words from your pen. She will be much interested in it, as they had thought of Jette for the Elliot's and are loving her sincerely.

 23d Sept

As for John it is now decided that in a few days he depart for Bangalore and join Mögl on his way to Dharwar etc. Otherwise we see he would not be well cared for. I for some time thought of taking him by way of Cannanore, that he might profit a little from Hebich and have a shorter road to Mysore, thinking it possible Hebich may have somebody for him as compagnon on the way. But as I up to this hour do not know if I shall get a Pattimar or be obliged to return by land, I would not delay his departure. Mögl. has asked for some Coolies from this place with books etc, so it will be easy to send him in company The friends at Mercara, Mysore etc will speed him on his way.

He has been rather sorry today. After all the trouble he had taken with the officer (a Mr Searle) he now breaks his promise to him. Of the 180 Rs which he gets for passing his examination half was to go to John in the case of its successful termination. But today he tells him, that as he has allowed the Missionaries to undo, to deceive him, he must take the consequences. If he had staid with him, he would have given him everything: but since he prefers others to him, he will not give a pice more, not even for his journey to Mang. etc. I could never have thought it possible that a gentleman should so openly reproach a former heathen with his conversion. John told him, that he his astonished to see how much he hates the religion he professes - and with that he went off.

Yesterday we had the Lord's Supper - there were many present, but it appeared to me rather a stiff way to do it as in our home, walking before the table and passing on. I think I prefer the kneeling, if it was in smaller numbers at each time, and the words repeated only once. We know but the little of the inward state of the congregation: but what one hears is more of nature than of grace. I fear the number of truly converted people is not very great in all our stations together. But the Lord be praised that there are some at least everywhere, with whom we may have every hope to partake of the marriage Supper above.

My love to the children, also to Miss whose letter has rejoiced me, still she must wait for an answer once more!
With true love
 Yours HGdt

