Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, pp

<20>* <1 Septbr 1850.>*

Cher papa

Miss ta racont‚ beaucoup touchant le cher Paul qui est grƒce … Dieu beaucoup mieux, il a eu une nuit trŠs passable, et ce matin il chante et joue un peu avec son frŠre.

Hier au soir sur les 9 heures il ‚tait un peu chaud jai senti alors que j'avais bien vite repris le sacrifice que j'avais cru avoir fait dans les premiers jours. Grƒce … Dieu que cette maladie est venue … ce temps ci plustot qu'un mois plus tard. ____________ ce salam a ‚crit le brave Vau je lui ai demand‚ ce que je devrais te dire il s'est vite lev‚ de son jeu pour prendre la plume. Il a aussi embrass‚ le papier pour toi.

Le cholera n'est pas ici les deux personnes qui en sont mortes s'‚taient echapp‚es dajicode* par crainte et ‚taient non pas dans notre Chiracal; mais dans l'autre.

Nous nous r‚jouissons avec toi pour ce que Dieu a fait dans le Bramin et aussi de ce que la lutte avec les parents n'a pas ‚t‚ aussi rude qu'on l'attendai. Dieu veuille le faire croitre … sa louange et … sa gloire. 
Hebich ayant appri que Timotius est malade … Anjercandi, il y est all‚ ce matin. Les Hallidays sont retenu ici pour quelques jours faute de porteurs, ils vivent chez les Youngs

Tout ici va passablement et t'envoyent Salams et Amiti‚s Fede envoye Salam adieu, son clou devient graduellement gros il permet d'avoir un potais dessus!
 Adieu cher papa
 toute … toi J. Gundert

Jacob has just been speaking to 3 Bramins, but they have quickly left him, he sends much Salams

David <Sany>* est all‚ … Anjercandi avec Joseph on dit qu'il va bien. Il s'entend mieux avec Hebich qu'autre fois Si Vau continue d'etre bien je n'‚crirai pas pour 2 a 3 jours




 1Cherrakall 1st Sept. <50>*
 Sunday

My dear father in the Lord,

As I stay at home to day, I write a short letter, Mrs Gundert told me, it is not enough to answer your letters, but I ought to write every week one, letter writing has not become an easy task till now to me. We all rejoiced in hearing, you were getting well again and we praise God for it. Paul was very ill these days, he touched nothing but a little water, he was very restless every night, yesterday he had an emetic a strong dose, and because we gave him this, he disliked us and called for no one but Claudia, when mama, Miss Kegel or I approached him, his words were always: po". After his emetic he was so weak that he lay the whole day in his bed, now and then uttering _____, last night I had my bed near his own, and while I was praying, I thought I did not hear him breathing, so I could not continue, with my whole heart in praying, my mind was so much on the child, when I had done I felt his head, it was quite cold, being wet with presperation, I was startled, but touching him the second time he began to move, and my fear was all gone, last night he slept better than the other nights; but thank God he is better today his fever has left him, he has no taste for milk; but drinks a quantity of water, to day he has swallowed some broth, he is still so weak that he cannot sit alone. Frederic is well, but another boil just opposite to the former one he is very much grieved for it, he is learning some alphabets, there are ten figs on the tree - we told Paul when papa comes he will get them. The Cholera is still going on, a man at _____ fearing he would get it, came to a place near us, there he had it and died, thank God we are all well, the girls send their love to you and all the other people in the compound.
 I remain yours in love
 Margaret W.

We have rain the whole day

