 9 Chiracal1 (?) 28 July 50
 <Balmatta.>* <Sunday>*
My dear wife

You are indeed diligent, this evening (27th) a letter arrived when I nomore expected it. Looking like a hero means, to make a face like one who has conquered dragons giants and kingdoms: exactly such is my face after having swallowed the oil and washed my mouth with peppermint water. I have drunk already 1/4 of the bottle and hope 1/4 of the cure is done, as I have every possible respect of a second bottle. I hear also it is very dear. - The horse I tried yesterday, but the saddle is in a sad plight perhaps I get a new one here. - Nath says that the washerm often wished to be rid of his wife, chiefly because she continually reproaches his sister with being a harlot Your neighbour is a rogue. To have a man more would certainly make him a little more cautious - and so would a good dog which certainly we ought to try and get. But a good one, tho it should cost some Rupees. - I am so glad of Feddys bread and butter appetite. I am sure that the cure of his liver was of the greatest importance. Now try and let him also go out in the evenings when dry. I am rejoiced to hear that he longs for letters from me. Tell him of Mrs Cox little child, and how the first Feddy liked "pay" not only "i pay" - Yesterday Mrs Foulis came and I went to see her at Mrs Greiners. She looks very well, he had suffered a little from a cold. But this is over now. - Anderson, Rankin etc I have not yet seen. But Copleston and Fisher who seem to take an interest in Anandrao's case. His property is continually attacked by his relations. He will have a good deal of trouble at first when he comes. On his account especially Dear M. thinks that the Lord will allow him to remain on his poste. He would otherwise have a very difficult entrance here. But this is human - the Lord will find ways for all His thoughts of love and mercy. I wish we had An. with us, rather than any other young Basler Brother: but this will hardly be possible. If M be not here, H will have to go to Dharw. his wife is with her father at Sircy. - Now what more, I am empty. Bühl has got a rebuke from the Committ for going at once to Kaity. How that business will be settled, we do not as yet know. B. wishes to meet M. at Mysore. He would prefer to see Mör. there, who also had first wished to come so far down to him. we shall see how to arrange that. On the 12th M. will probably start. Maltby the Collr has just arrived. With love to all
 Yours HG

Ask Miss Kegel if the "Warte" has arrived this month - or if I have to send it?

