Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

37 Balm. 19 Sept 50
 <Thursday>*
Dear wife

What a rainy day this Thursday - I am glad I am not on sea, a place to which Br Hebich's care for your person would have consigned me by this time. But I trust I shall care better than thus for my skin: certainly I will wait for a bit of wind and hope to hit on the right day. 
Your letter of Sunday arrived yesterday evening that was the day when Mr Searle in half an hour passed his examination before Mr. Anderson etc and by this good fortune of his John is henceforth his own master. That is to say he will enter the upper class of the boys. I thought some days of bringing him with me to Cann. and then sending him on to Mögl. with any Christian companion we might find for him, but after all I prefer to let him stay here, where for the present he indeed can hardly have particular care taken of him, but where the difficulties are perhaps less than on a journey.

Mrs W<eigle>* has plenty of milk, she took oil for her bowels and it acted well. The child is quite contented to stay in this miserable world Weigle has sent an answer to the Bomb Times, denying the charges brought agst Hebich, Mrs Greiner etc. Möglg will send another answer to the Madras Spectator. For therein appeared a letter, pretending to be written by one of us, and glorying in that we did more work than other Missionary Societies: glorying also in our not being subjected like English to articles which we do not believe, articles which are not founded in the word of God etc. This letter had slaggered several of our friends, f. i. Maltby of Trichinopoly who henceforth would no more subscribe to the German Mission etc. But we now know from the Postoffice that both letters, the one of accusation and the other of insidious defence are written by the same person, the Rom. Cath schoolmaster <Fitzgerald>* of the place, a great scamp notorious for meddling with Newspapers (Fitzgerald is his name).
Mögl is again in the best of spirits quite hopeful to return in Dec. He has in that case promised us a visit for Febr 1851 on his way to the hills, he hopes "für ein Dank und Freudenfest". Sanderson's preaching he liked, but thought there was too little of the Gospel in it. Campbell preaches the truth, but with a very tiresome prosiness. I told you he liked Cryer very much for being so simple. Of the other Ministers (Sugden) he has not as yet spoken.

Today Nath. smiled when I told him that the horse must soon depart. He will have been astonished when he saw the empty oil bottle at once half full again. John writes to M. "Mr G. will soon depart, I think for a very necessary purpose. May God bless his wife and the expected baby." I asked how he knew it? "From the boys." But you may be sure I do not hurry if there be no regular wind. As for coming by land, it seems to me too long a way and I might suffer more from occasional rains than by going in a pattimar. So I am sorry to say, don't count on your husband, the old deserter. Still I am glad to hear that my children expect me. How good was the Lord to bring them so far round again in their health.

As for Thema let her take care of my stick! Thanks for what you write about Ps 87. I also am against taking the very young children of Christian families, but consent gladly to take heathen babes when they offer 
Now the Lord be with you and keep you in perfect peace. Give my love to Miss Kegel the children Jacob and the whole house
 Yours HG

