Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

3
Mrs Gundert per extrapost Mangalore 19 Jul 50
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening I came to this place: thank God in very good condition. The first palankeen day had shaken me very much - the night only showed me how little it did agree with me. But the next day with 2 stations did not make me worse and the last day with 2 stages more left me through the blessing of God quite easy, at my entrance. I had sent a Cooly before hand and written for a horse or bandy near the river. It came too late, but I walked the rest of the way till Dr Foulis came behind me in his bandy on his way to a meeting. Of course I allowed him to take me in and so I came in great style to the Mission Compd: Möglg had run the other way to meet my empty Palanqueen. - I had a good night. Apropos one of the first words of the Dr in the bandy was "you must begin the codliveroil" - I thanked God in my heart for it, today I begin - not discontinuing the water which on the road has done me excellent service (with prayer) for I was at first in a regular mess, doubting if I should go farther in the palanq or walk or try horse or boat: but it was not necessary. Würth is it seems pretty content: he met me at the entrance, going also to the meeting - a conversational one, held by Posnett the Chapl. and Anderson chiefly. I am glad to say Mögl looks pretty well: and is very much relieved by Würths coming. - Now to the letters - none as yet from my wife! but from Hebich some kind words of the 17th. Why he sent me my brothers old letter I cannot imagine. Here follows my Papa's and Ostertags. The first Miss K will read to you - the 2d Heb. may in part translate to you next Thursday: but then I want both letters back (after Thursday) Other letters I will send in a parcel to H. Mrs Lechler provides an English teacher, a pious Lady for Ostertag. Her 2 girls are said to be amiable and well brought up. Elliot's boy is to be brought up with our Kern who is to live in Stuttg with his mother (sister of Jette's mother). Lehner's in Kissingen - nobody knows what is to become of him. Of Lehmann Lacroix writes he seems to be a nice amiable brother but requires one near him to show him the way he has to walk in. From Hiller a few condoling words to Mögl "In keuscher <chaste> treuer Liebe Dein Bruder J.C.H." I wonder what names we can give to that which is not love: we call it love only of a certain rare sort! So H's love is one without passion certainly. - The letter of Christ Sarasin which Heb sent to me I will extract and then return to him. So he has to write to no Station about it, and will be thankful for my good services from a distance. Poor Stanger writes full of joy - preaches twice a day, hopes in 1/2 year to become also an English preacher, and the question of ordination etc will be speedily settled to his satisfaction. He only wants our Committee to send him a wife - Nathaniel is very glad to be now at the journey's end. He has some difficulty to settle matters with the people. To the Mapla who was so furious he gave 4 1/2 Rs instead of 4 only to get rid of him. But dont mention this fear of his: I give to it occasionally a counterpoise in the fear of his earthly Master whose hand is a little more tight over him than that of the Mistress. But he does his best to please me.

Now give my love to all the people I hasten to finish that I may open the codliveroil bottle and taste this precious stuff for the first time. How I liked it I may tell another day. Feddy is I hope a good boy - and Vau will continue to eat _____________ and kill frogs and _________'s - may God keep them and you, and let his face shine over the house and station  Ever
 Yours HGdt

Lieber Hebich habt ihr Zeitungen erhalten?

