Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

15. M. 9 Aug 50
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

How quickly you answer I am indeed delighted to get letters often before I expect them. On the 7th the Cooly came: he brought no watch to mend, but the newspapers. M is reading in them and gets heartily ashamed of being a German. Have you not as yet seen David? I should like to get a bit of description about him. Has he any native brother with whom he is a little more intimate? I fear the poor man has been treated so tenderly that his heart requires first to be set at ease before he can profit of Br Heb's knocks. Mör. writes with a sort of fear about him: having heard nothing of him he trembles the next news may be bad news. Try to get him once on a visit to Chir. and give me some description of him, that I may satisfy Mör. without writing what must grieve him. - I am glad if you get no more Portuguese and other grown women. You have quite labour enough. I wish Louise were married already. Does the man come from Aden for her? - I told Nath your news of Gideon. His wife had written him amongst other things "you seem to have got new money at Mang that you want me to write so often" - and she laments as one whose heart was broken by his words. That must be exaggeration. Is Joseph's little girl better? Remember me to them. - I never doubted that Miss K. would like to make visits if she once knew the people. It may do her good to learn a little more English. Halliday has written a nice note to Mögl. with some receipt of Heb. Dorcas <von Quilon>* might perhaps come if Margaret wrote to ask her only in a distant way. I could not invite her: but the offer to keep one of our children might be safely made to her by one of her former friends. If she once shows a mind to come I can write to herself. Only you know I am afraid of getting her mother and sister into the bargain: therefore would rather commit it to the Lord and keep up a correspdce that in case of necessity she know whither to turn

Lehm left on the 5th and may be here in 10* days. He has a weak and conceited mind accdg to Gottfd. Pauline is quite well, sends plenty love to you. The girls have returned from Hoobly quite pleased. <Johs>* Müller does still not baptize the 4, he now has nothing to say against them, but that their _______ does not please him quite. They write they pray continually that it may please him in order that they get baptism. It is really a shame. They ask not a pice from the Mission!

Now love to all esp to my dear boys and may God make them obedient and tender
 Yours HG

