33 Mang 12 Sept 50
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

As I have good news from Mögl I hasten to communicate them unto you. On the 6th he was overtaken by such a rain that he and Sanderson had to pass the night in a Tappal hut - on the ground with a fire near their feet - yet he arose without any complaint, even the bugs had not been permitted to devour him. On the 9th early he arrived at Bangalore and began to write steamletters of which he has a number to answer. The Dr saw him for the first time and did not think his case "very deadly". But of this we must expect further news only after longer delay.

Albr. begged Mrs W to become godmother and W. to be vicegodfather for one at home. The W's are now doubting if they must return the compliment. - The As had the other day a great fright. Their boys ran out of the house after the band: one did not observe it for some time and found them at last safe 1/4 of an hours distance from the house (Don't tell this to be written back to Dh.) On the 4th Pauline was quite well and still expecting. W. is especially glad to hear that M. poured out his medecine glass (this also is a secret and must not be mentioned, especially not to the dear Youngs) - Oh what are the news from Young's brother at Madras I saw his arrival and nearly think his father in law has been transferred to India (Chinsurah*, where there are many Dutch) - In the Spect. of the 28th of August there is an Article pretending to be a defense written by a sick Missionary of Mangalore. All a forgery by an enemy. It is really very bad. Weigle wishes M to go to Madras at all events and make the acquaintance of the Christian friends there. Elliot there was so anxious to see Mögl that he had offered to come to Bangal merely to have some conversations with him. - Bell's at Dharwar have nearly quite cut the W's: there is a great power in Puseyism just now. I think all are afraid of being thought lukewarm in matters of the Church of England. I wonder what it will be when the Bishop <Dealtry>* comes here: for he is expected in October. Perhaps we shall see him first at Cannanore. Now farewell. Pray for us. John has been detained nearly the whole day by that officer so I had no lesson today <just now he still comes for one to close the day>1 - I feel it as a loss.
 God with you! HG.

