Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

35. Mangal 16 Sept 50
 <Monday>*
Dear wife

I hasten to send to you the letters from home. That from Stuttg Miss K will read to you. The one from Ostertg I send merely for Br H. for there are no news in it except that Mary assumes a triumphat mien as often as letters come from India just as if that was her day of honour. The 2 Lechlers and the 2 Menge's are all, especially the latter one's very dear children and speak nothing but English so Marie picks it up with them; when she wants a word she cannot just find, she coins a new one. Your letter had good effect on her. She again had for some time her dark season, cutting right and left with her tongue and sullen in look and gestures, but happily it lasts not long, before it yields to a happy and grateful spirit. She requires indeed our prayers. As soon as an opportunity occurs for Cann she will send eine Arbeit which she got ready for us. Mrs Ostertg hardly finds time to sit for dinner, so please excuse for one post! - Mögl has seen Mrs Groves at Palhalli She sends most earnest Selams: and he a brotherly greeting. - I could not go to Moolky, have still boils. - By the way I beg you never to cross letters for me, I dislike reading them a second time for answering. But you will have few to write. For tho' I shall not come as quickly as Heb. wishes (he thinks for next Sunday) I think of coming the week after, when John is free from his master. Till then I wish to stop and watch. I am taking the oil of course and have finished the 2d bottle; so I think I must begin a third one: I long ago ordered 2 bottles in Bomb but they have not come as yet it seems. I ordered them to Cann. The Dr is doing nothing with me, so content is he with my regular progress. - Yesterday for the first time I preached a little to Anderson's servants. It did not oppress me, still I felt hotter in the night, and shall take care not to repeat the trial before it is quite time. You have no idea how much of slime I had to expectorate (with the oil) until my throat became so clear as it is now. I am sure from trials that the water alone would not have effected this - it helps on the boils and cools etc but by itself does not clear the throat. I ought to have begun the oil in December last.

Mr Hebich represented it as doubtful if you will take the English midwife. Now I think you ought not to reject so great a convenience the first time it offers. Whether I be there or not you will find it an advantage to have an experienced person of the kind. Therefore please make sure of that. 
Mrs Foulis is reconciled to hear even Mr Posnetts disapprobation, says Mrs C

Nothing particular in this place. The bell is certainly not ready when I shall leave this. Of the watches only one. The Chaplain makes again an excursion to Mercara. So my dear Vau coughs? I hope he makes soon an end of it and does nothing more than learn the Cow! And Feddy must be a good boy and begin his Alphabet-s!

This day you have had Mrs Wilkenson, I hope you received pleasure from the visit and were enabled to serve her. The Lord be with you and all the little ones.
 Yours HG.

The horse is recovering.

