Mrs Gundert

19 (Chir? no) Mang 16 Aug 50
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

It was with some disappointment I received today your kind letter - I had nearly made sure it must contain my homeletters. Monday evening they were received here - but perhaps tomorrow I shall be luckier. - Your letter itself pleased me much, especially the details about Mör's Benoni <David>*, for so he calls him, I immediately wrote the details to M. Great was my surprise to see that at the same time you finished also a letter for Pauline She will be glad indeed to get so much from you I hope to continue to be glad of the attendu and without fears, they indeed do not become us, after our heavenly father has so well cared for us these 12 years of married life. - So Cugn. and Jos are better. I hope that God will even speak yet to Mark and his poor wife that they be saved in time! - Thats fine that Paul knows to mount the horse - never mind some tumbles. I also believe the meat will be better for fanny than for him and "gönne ihm" his sweetmeats after so long a deprivation. - Yesterday evening (15th Jeudi) M. left at last, after long Adieus with each of the scholars etc - it was a busy busy day for him and I am glad he has gone at last. Degg. wished first to have a talk with him and wanted him to change his principles, especially no more to write to Josenhans privately etc - of course it was useless. Bös. in shaking hands begged* his pardon. When he had gone, Christians 1... midnight bore her first child a girl

16th evening. A large letter from Hebich with Papa's home letter. No news in it but all are well. You will get it in a few days, I send it first to Mögl who is still near. In half an hour this must be on the postoffice. I had to write (or translate) so much for M

1... am quite tired and must beg your pardon* for not writing more just now. Mrs Gr sends also Selam. I showed her the boys letters. Mr Hoch is a nice open brother, with W<ürth>* we go on without coming very close still very friendly. Now grace be with you all
 Yours for ever
 HG
Hoch sends Selams

