Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

23 Mang 25 Aug 50
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Though this is Sunday I will try to fulfil your wish and send an answer without loss of time. The 2 watches have arrived, the golden one is much admired by M he says there is nothing wanting but the spring broken which is easily remedied. - Inclosed again a Dharwar letter. You see that Mrs W<eigle>* is indeed a good mother in prospect that is to say very content patient and hopeful. Do imitate her as you have done hitherto. They had not written to Mang for a long time but now at last a letter has come and with it a long correspdce they have had with a foolish Christian (?) friend, Mr Bell. He is bewitched by Tractarianism, and accordingly when Mr Beynon of the London Mission was invited by Albr to preach to the Engl congregation, Bell as soon as he saw him go into the Vestry, called for his carriage and left the Chapel along with his wife. Afterwards he began a "hawfully" solemn correspondence about Schism and Holy Church and such stuff and the brethren (viz. W.) answered well enough. I think they ought to have told him yet more plainly that he is bewitched. He wants them to ask our Committee if they will sanctify such proceedings and himself intends to consult his Chaplain and Bishop. Poor souls!

I was much pleased with your bold declaration of what you are and what you will no more be to the end of time. We have indeed every reason to be bold - impudent, says the Lord in one place, - first with our Father in the Son, and then with the brotherhood how much more with those so closely united to us. - As for Paul's independence it is all right, if he be not permitted to carry it out before the time. He must have a firm hand over himself or will give us much trouble. On the other hand it is to be expected that with such a temper he will after all find it easier to march thro' the world than dear Frederick, though of course as to the entrance into the kingdom it is equally difficult and equally easy for both. They must be born from above. 
Mögl writes from Merc that he is very cheerful, has his pulse at 85 - does not as yet feel it cold sits writing to me in Hemdaermeln and stretches himself now and then with great delight. He has now every hope to be able to stay in the land.

Dr Foulis is very occupied with the Cholera, about which our Jacob here has written to Mögling "a terrible blow of it has lately crept in the jail and sifted up some souls" - that is to say he had 25 cases of Cholera in the jail and 9 of them have turned out fatal. He is quite unwearied in his attentions there. - Myself am quite come round again. It was not in talking with Mögl that I spoiled my throat a little, but by accepting that invitation to the Andersons in a rainy night and sitting in airy rooms with the head uncovered, which after my long continued custom of covering the head is I believe henceforth only to be tried with great care. But the oppression on the chest has quite gone now and I have instead of it a boil on the elbow.

I hope Louise may soon be married that would be some chance of her becoming a Christian woman. Let her bear what she has still to bear: perhaps if she learn to pray for her husband he will also be less of a hindrance to her. 
But now it is enough. May the Lord be with you all and make you useful to the dear children to whom give also my Selams. My Christian love also to the Youngs when you see them
 Yours affly
 HGdt

