18. Balm 14 Aug 50
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening when Mrs Cummin and Dr's were here for the meeting, I received your letter, exhorting me not to sing (which when I told the Dr he laughed at and said I ought soon to begin and preach - still I am in no hurry.) and telling of the preaching of our 2 boys which pleased Mrs C. very much. Are you indeed oblig‚ (or au-blig‚?) for the corrections - that is proper for an obedient wife. The letter of Miss was well done and I expected a continuance - it is just as well she writes to me as into a Cahier. Your medicine names are horribly out of the way: You ought to see occasionally what that french book says about it (f. i. Ipecacuanha etc) - That hymnbook with my name is of course meant for you and you will use it accordingly. - Thanks for your news abt David I shall write them to Mörike in my next - I shall think of writing to the Hallidays a short letter, it is very kind of them to take the first care of Fred's future schoolbusiness. - Of course you do not send Claudia (except with Tirumal if you like). It is strange how they <Chr Müller at Chomb)>* can make such demands.

 Thursday 15th August <50>*

Now the day of M's departure has at last arrived. I am glad of it, for the preparations affected him more than he cared to show. When he is quite departed he will be more at his ease. I wish he may be able to bear bearing better than I did. He will be carried 4 stations till Puttur in this night. There he meets an officer to whom he may perhaps preach and stop for him till Sunday evening, then by slow stages on to Mercara.

Yesterday evening we followed Andersons invitation to tea (tho' I drank none) - the first time I paid a visit - there was musick and singing, whilst M talked what remained to be spoken with Anderson. Mrs And. plays very well, as you perhaps know. They want me to tune their piano; but I thought with a sigh, how pleased I should be if mine was half as well tuned as theirs is at present. I certainly shall first try to forget it, before I try my hands at it.

Mr Anderson wishes us not to answer Kinloch's attack in the Spectator, because he feared K might be irritated and publish all sort of Cannanur stories. But perhaps I mentioned that already. Lechler writes to me that he was the writer of the reply to that attack; I had thought so already. L. expects his wife will be accompanied out by a brother from Chrishona, named Rahm who will be carpenter etc. - There is no prospect at Salem for Bös. - for Lechl would only take him if there was no complaint against him. - Yesterday I had the first talk with Br. Gr. about our Mission affairs. He is convinced that those in the Oberland have done all most conscientiously, tho' he will not defend all their acts. I found it very useless to speak on these matters. The chief complaint is that Jos. is so determined in his language - but it is plain that if he was not so, they would not be very anxious to obey him. - Würth is very communicative, talks Greek and Latin and translates to me all weighty words, when he is just full of a newly read chapter. I fear there will be little education here, tho' he is very diligent in teaching. But if he seeks he will find what is the most required. - The Dr was here to see M for the last time, advised him strongly not to return before he has spent some years in perfect retirement. I wonder how M will keep that? May the Lord restore him. The Dr has been very kind all this time Gr. is nearly well again through his treatment. Mrs Gr. and children are all in good health - Pauline teethes now and then. She is still far from walking tho 13 months old. - Today Nath asked for money and leave to go to the Bazar I wonder how he will purchase what he wants and is ordered to buy. It is the first time he goes. He goes on to my and the general satisfaction. Servants here are mostly lazier than ours. I hope Cugnen is well again. - Journals we received none this month. Did you? Ask Miss Kegel. with Selams to whom and love to you all I remain
 Yours HG

