<an Robinson>*

 <15 Octb 50>*

Sir1

I hasten to bring to your notice an assault which a number of Tiers have made on my servants whilst they were endeavouring to keep them off from my house.

Yesterday <14>* about noon several Tiers were observed standing on a neighbour's (Candembetta Bappu) wall, spying all the ways about our buildings and trying to hold conversation with girls of the school. <When> They discovered one, <Manni> newly placed under our care by her father Payanaden Chattu, a Tier labourer of Anjercandy who was baptized this 6th Oct) they enticed her to come near them, upon which she ran back to the others and quitted with them that part of the compound. Our people remarked then that Bappu's garden and house were filled with Tiers from Tell. Anjerc. Cann etc About 2 PM nearly 20 of them entered our gate and boldly came to the Verandah headed by a woman Ettiancandi Mata who claimed her daughter Manni, and was seconded by the cries and threats of her followers. I offered to hold conversation with 2 or 3 but not with such a crowd, yet could not prevail on them to retire or to become quiet. Their manner growing more violent I sent for peons and declined saying a word more to them. They then declared they would see and have the girl whatever it might cost, that they had money enough to help them out of any scrape and that they would make an end to the usurpations of the Padres. The 3 or 4 men in my service suceeded however by kindness to draw them nearer the gate, and were reasoning there with them, in the expectation of being soon relieved by the appearance of peons. In this hope they were deceived. they had to endure many pushes and blows and about 3 o'clock 3 of them were seized by the mob, carried out of the compd had their clothes torn, handkerchiefs robbed, and escaped with difficulty after hard beating. I was already thinking that the peons of the neighbourhood must have connived at these proceedings, when the person who had sought for them returned and reported, that he could find none, not even at the Talook Catchery (where only 2 were kept on guard) and therefore had gone to fetch the Adhicari. This person did appear shortly after but unattended by peons and when he began to reason with the mob, was soon driven into the compd, of which we succeeded in shutting the gate. The mob in - creasing, he became frightened and wished to see the girl. As she declared to him, that her own mother was dead and that for 5 years she had lived entirely with her father who had married another woman that she had no relations to whom she could wish to go, he wanted her to approach the gate and make there the same declaration. But I resistet this and all other parleying and made him responsible for keeping the peace: if he could secure a few of the ringleaders for the night, there could be no fear of the threatened nightattack being executed. He promised much but At last he confessed that he was unable to do any thing, no peons being kept on this feastday (Navaratri) but if I wrote an Urzee to the Tahsildar he would try to have it conveyed to him. I did so about 4 o'clock. We were however kept in a state of siege till 7 o'clock, the mob sitting or standing round the compound harangued especially by Vanein Ambu a violent enemy of ours many of them drunk, all waiting for nightfall, and heaping every abuse on us and the Adhicari. A 1/2 past six we had the visit of a European soldier with his son, who were allowed to pass unmolested, they estimated the number of persons in the road at 200; many of them no doubt mere spectators. As it was now growing dark and my partner, having been confined only a few days ago, became rather nervous I stated our circumstances to Capt Young at Cannanore, who on receiving the letter by the returning soldier procured peons and hastened with them to our assistance. But before they arrived, 2 peons from the Tahsildar came (about 7 o'clock) and reported that on account of the feast he could not read the Urzee, but hearing there was a disturbance, had ordered them to go and see. When they appeared, the mob dispersed: and the night passed quietly. -

I will not presume to offer any remarks* on these facts, but confess that I feel tempted if ever similar case occur, to pass by the Talook Catchery and get at once assistance from Cannanore. But I trust you will enquire into the matter and order the necessary measures for preventing such outrages in future.


 1 Madras 25th Apr. 1837.

Revd. C. Grenier, Mangalore

I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of the 20Ulto Giving Cover to an order for Rs 40. Forty which has been duly recd. and placed to your Credit. -

I* receipted* Bill for the same* is herewith enclosed. -

 Awaiting your farther orders
______________________________I remain Sir
 Your ... obed Serv


 1Sirsee - February 5th 1836* -

My dear Sir,

I have just received your letter, and according to your request lose no time in answering it. I am sorry to say that it is not in our power to meet your wishes* on the subject of the house - although I should be very glad to do so - The roof of the house is so much out of repair that we have determined upon having it renewed before the monsoon sets in - and I have already offered the use of the house to a friend who has applied to act in my place while I am away - Besides which I should not be able to part with it for any length of time, as it is very uncertain how long I shall remain away from Mangalore, and even if I should be confirmed in my present appointment my brother and myself would still wish to have a house in Mangalore to which we could occasionally resort. I trust you will therefore see that it is not in my power to offer it to you, or I should have been happy that it should have been of use -. I am sure it would have been in good hands -.

With kind regards to Mr Grainer and Mr Lehner
 Believe me, My dear Sir,
 Yours very truly
 Fra ... Maltby

 1Bombay 25. January 1839.

Revd. Mr. S. Hebich, Dharwar

Revd Sir,

By direction of the Revd Mr. Warth - Nassick* - Enclosed we beg to hand you a hoondie* for 250 Rupees drawn by Cursetjee Ejaarjee* of this place on Malthooe Vauyan* Shapoorkur* at Hoobley at 11. Days Sight, in our favor which we have Endorsed in your name. - You will be pleased to receive the amst.* at due date and advise the same to the Revd. Mr. Warth. - Also let us know that you have recd. the Hoondy* Safe. - Enclosed is a letter to your address from Revd. Warth.

We are shop keepers and wine merchants here and shall be happy to attend to your Commands.

 We are, Revd Sir,
 Your most obedient Servants.


 Cowasjee* and Hormajee* Jeewahjee

