Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, pp

<nach Bang>1

 <5 Sept 50>*

2My dear father in the Lord

Thank you for your kind letter. I was glad to hear of the Lord's work which is beginning among the Brahmins there, may many follow Shamrao who has found salvation, and may he afterwards be the means of bringing some of his relations. Your stay at Mangalore is not in vain, the Lord is using you there to convert souls to the glory of His name. Thank you for having reminded me of my own state, my slow progress, how soon I forget my case, and think every thing safe, when many may be running before me, who came after me, and I cannot yet say that I have so much love to Christ as to count every thing else clung* for Him, may the Lord fill me with His love, to love Him above all, and to love my neighbour as myself.

Thank God we are all well, I was a little unwell, but a dose of emetic has done me a great deal of good, Frederick is very well, his boil has opened he is now very merry, and talks a great deal.

Paul is now well again, we showed him a picture which was in your room, of hofaker he thought it was papa and kissed it and kept it near him for a while, Fredy loves him now better than before. he sends you kisses and adieu. The children send their love to you. Elisabeth and Anna send their love to Ebenezer.
 I remain your's in love
 Margaret Will.

 1Jeudi matin <5 Sept 50>*
Cher Papa

Miss ta dit bien des choses de nos chers enfans, c'‚tait vraiment amusant lors qu'il <Paul>* vit cette figure de Hoff pour un instant il restait pensif, ‚ton‚ consid‚rait, puis enfin un courir en l'embrassant. De temps … autre il est encore de trŠs mauvaise humeur, mais on voit sur sa figure que cela est occasion‚ par ses dents. la nuit derniŠre il a dormi comme il faut pour la premiŠre fois dans 12 jours. Ce matin a reparu un fromage sur la table ce qui n'avait pas eu lieu pour plusieurs mois, tu peux imaginer la joie de Vau.

Fede est trŠs heureux, nous n'avons point apper‡u lors que son clou s'est ouvert, nous supposons que cette op‚ration s'est faite par Coug qui un matin le pris de sa chaise … sa demande pour le mettre embas, il fit alors un grand cri; mais peu a peu se consola, plus tard Elisa trouva sa chemise remplie de matiŠre. Un jour comme il ‚tait seule il se mit sur sa petite chaise pour priŠre, l… il dit. papa, mama, Mam, Misi, Vau, I must not eat ___________ it is bad, not be a bad child!

Ce matin aprŠs avoir refus‚ de prier avec moi il est all‚ chez Marie et lui a demand‚ de le faire avec lui. Il est quelques fois trŠs drole, amusant, en parlant il fait des gests, hier au soir il ma dit Mama if you give me an other cup of tea I will make you salam, en disant ceci il tenait sa main lev‚e avec beaucoup de s‚rieux. Jacob says, that the people here have made an agreement since Cannen went away not to hear any more a word about religion, they are angry, but it is a good sign. I hope that the Lord will soon work among them. This morning Obrien, David, John have passed here, begining their little journy they will go to day to Talipa D. seams very happy. Mrs. Muller is not coming. I have told you formerly that my Bale watch is in Mr Hebich's hand as he had nothing any more. I just recieve yours of sunday for which accept my thanks.
Here every thing as usual With love around you and from all here specialy from Jacob 1 and Jacob 2
 Yours J. Gundert

