Rev H. Gundert, Mangalore, pd

<24>* Chiracal 13th Spt 50

Cher papa.

Bien oblig‚ pour ta bienvenue datee du 7 mais expedi‚e le 9 je suppose puisqu'elle n'est arriv‚e ici que le 13. Tu n'as pas ‚t‚ … Moolki il parait. Nous sommes tous interess‚ … ce qui concerne le cher John Dieu veuille se montrer puissant et victorieux en lui. Les Youngs nous ont fait une visite hier au soir. Il a racont‚ l'histoire des papiers contre notre mission et Hebich allant chez deux Dmes qui touchaient du Piano, celles ci ennuyes de sa pr‚dication ont cherch‚ a l'exp‚dier, elles ni ont r‚ussit qua l'aide dun Monsieur (dont j'ai oubli‚ le ...) Mrs Foulis semble ˆtre imbib‚e des opin... pieuses du Chapelin. Il parle beaucoup contre les r‚unions de priŠres surtout de celle de femmes, … quoi Mrs F. semble ascender. Elle parle toujours en faveur de lui tendis que Mrs Cummin fait le contraire, Heb. qui a entendu cette lettre de Mrs F. lors que Mme Young me la lisait, a dit it is all humbug she makes white that not is black and black ... is white You give her propre sense. Cpt Young regretted when he heard that you had mind to return at the begining of Oct., he said perhaps he will spoil the whole cure he asked also whether you were going on with oil. My confidence is not in the Dr as you know, but as you find the waters more beneficial there would you not try to stay longer. Would not also John require it? Please do not mind me, all will be right, I have no fear, he who has helped when I distrusted him Will work, He makes to bring forth these words I read the other day in Rochates letter they have done me good. I have an iruption of the skin which troubles me very much, but I am glad of it as I felt much heat after the sickness of dear Vau, he recovers slowly, he coughs pretty much at night, it may be on acccount of his teeth though it appears some time to be like the hoopin cough, but slight if it is such. he is always fond of his picture book, but chiefly of the cow Alphabet letters. F‚de is nicely, but does not like to learn any thing. To morrow Saterday I expect Mrs Wilkenson with children, Guidion has had a dose of H. medecine She is rather cast down about the child though I think it is noth. more then teething. Nothing from Mogling and Mrs W.? Apropos Mr Muller n'a t il pas re‡u des orloges pour ‚changer le notre? Miss quoique mieux n'‚crit pas cette fois ci Il fait un singulier temps ici tonnŠres, pluies, comme si on ‚tait au mois d'Ot, You might perhaps have sent from Bombay the box which is to our address to bring it with you it would be nice if it was comin to your own hand

The mistake about the letter has been made at Can the boy did not take the money to pay it I sow in our book* that it had not been paid, thank for 32 of the 11 just recieved. Last night Paul had no coaugh. I think the negligence of Claudia was in great part the fault her not minding whether clothes and bed are quite dry. Now fare well yours aff
 J. Gundert

Mrs Wilkenson comes only on monday Our two boys send kisses, this morning Marie told them that you will soon return they seamed to have understoot it and laughed heartly

