Rev S. Hebich, for Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

8 Balm. 27 July 1850
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

You are rather economical of paper and ink. In vain I waited for answers to my last letters - nor have Ostertags, Papa's and the other writings returned which I sent 8 days ago to Hebich. I know he has this week much labour, still he might have packed together and returned the letters I communicated to him, even if he did not write a word. Our home letters are yet to be sent to Weigle, who is anxious for them. I see from a letter of Huber to Mögl. that also my letter to him has remained quietly on Heb's table and am glad that there was nothing important in it. The letters to you I hope are sent without delay: if not, I will in future address them directly to you: but this time I write per adress S. H. that he may become aware of these threatening clouds gathering around him.

The horsekeeper arrived yesterday afternoon alone. The river was so much swollen that the people would not try the Jungadu but wished the horse to wait a night longer on the Southern shore. This morning at last it arrived and looks in good condition. I will try it in the evening.

This morning for the first time I went to the lower house - and saw Greiner - his wife and children are still at Balmatha. They have cut off some coffeetrees etc to gain freer circulation of air. Their 2 breadfruit trees from Tellich (when they passed through) are growing famously. - My health getting on better and better. I now take the nasty stuff by desertspoons - the Dr is himself astonished how well I am going on without other help. I find that the water here is much better. I think because it is from a well containing a real fountain. I can now talk longer than ever before without feeling any monitor. But of course I take care and do rather whisper than speak. - Dear M. is getting on now and then, and standing still again at times. His pulse is low at night and rising in the mornings. Some times he feels nothing in the heart, but the hands are still like Pelzhandschuhe - this is his expression - so as to make it a task to him to write a letter. - Bös. is getting well. Gr's children are well. - I saw the Chaplain <Posnet>* met him on a walk with the brethren - he does not give the impression of a spiritual man, but of one openhearted and well inclined. He thought it a hardship that the young officers do not attend Church and wished there was a Hebich here to give them knocks. From Cal. you will have heard that our Chaplain <Kinloch>* has formally excommunicated Conolly, and threatened to do the same against him at Cannanore and in the Chief church of Madras. - Anderson not seen as yet. Copleston and Fisher rather nice men talked of a process which is carried on before them about Herm. Anandraos property: which his relations try to deprive him of. -

Enclosed a letter from Nath to his wife. Give it directly, there is nothing in it. She ought indeed to write to him. But you can hardly exhort there to it with a perfectly good conscience

Love to my dear children, I shall bring some new pictures to Fred. Vau must not tear them. My regards to Miss Kegel. Selam to Jacob Joseph and all the dear people.
 In love Yours HG.


 <Balm. 27 Juli 50.>*

Your question made me smile. There is no difference in the meaning of Christ J. and Jesus Chr. there is only a difference in the tone or accent. Just as in Würtemberg some talk of the Herzog Carl, others of the Carl Herzog (the Duke in whose time my father was born). When you say Jesus Chr. you lay the chief stress on Jesus, that person born in Bethlehem, grown up at Nazareth, the teacher of Galilee Judaea etc who was put to death and raised again at Jerusalem. If you say Christ Jesus, you think chiefly on the Messiah the office foreshadowed in the O.T. the woman's seed, the true comforter (Noah), the God of Shem, the seed promised to Abraham the Shilch or lion and king of peace out of Judah etc all the characteristics of whom you find fulfilled in Jesus. The Apostles proved that this Jesus is the Christ: the Jews believed fully in Christ, but they were to be taught that Jesus is that Christ. The weaker disciples had a good deal of confidence in Jesus: but it required the holy Ghost or the father from heaven to show them that in Jesus all the promises of the O.T. are fulfilled. This was first fully confessed by Peter and is the foundation stone of the Church. Accordingly the Apostles in speaking to the Church liked to link the 2 names together that of the person and that of the office: that which is the factotum of their gospel and that which is the sum of law and prophets. And the one or the other was put first as it seemed to them fittest in the connexion of each verse (see 1 Tim. I,1.2.9.10.13. II,8.10. III,12.15. IV,1.) We may put to ourselves the task to find a peculiar propriety in each case - but on the other hand we must not imagine that secrets are hid under it, which could greatly influence our Christian knowledge.

May the Lord bless your reading meditation prayer and speaking - first to yourself then to the children old and young under your charge, is the prayer of
 Yours HG


1the Tapal runs 3. days: so your dear Husband is all wrong what he says concerning it.

