13 Balm 4th Aug <50.>*
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

Today is dear Samuels birthday - did you think of it. It was I hope a fine quiet Sunday for you. I am getting ready my home letters and hope that ere long you send me your contribution for this dispatch. - In the evening Yours of the 3d arrived. We had nothing from Europe except a letter from Mrs Elliot who has arrived safely at Triest and passed over to Venice when Marriott sent by Ostertag hastened after her and reached her just in time to make the preparations for the route across the Alps. They were well, the children glad of the change. - Mr Mögl thought of leaving the 12th. At present he does not think he shall be able to leave before the 15th. It is nearly a complete breaking off of the establishmt for the Munshis are dismissed, the Press is about to be stopped, and that sort of thing. But he still hopes to return by land without an embarcation. Today after 3 days watercure he says that he feels decidedly better, not merely those common ups and downs. But he is the Lord's and His will be done!

Heb's letter and the promise of Cooly with Manjil and packet has arrived. Thanks to him. If he will keep David longer it is quite right, but then he ought to remain until there be a good and safe opportunity to send him back to the hills. Mögl is quite content with this turn of the matter. - I am pleased with what you say about prayer. The fact is that we have no assurance in praying even for ourselves good things, except so far as the spirit shows that what we ask is also for God's name, useful to his kingdom, and according with His will. So if accordg to the lesson to the day we are ordered to pray for labourers into the Vineyard we may well also ask that He keep those that are already in it, that He do not cast them away altogether as unprofitable, but send them anew etc all which concerns Him and His cause even more than our persons. If this be done in full faith, the result will be seen in the proper hour. Nath writes in his letter that he read his wife's 3 and 4 times. That is a tenderness I have not yet reached. His grief was also an unspeakable one, at least so he expresses himself, because she did not write. It was then very doubtful if she loved him alone. But now all is right and she must not be sorry for it, but make something with wood that their Gideon do not fall out of the door etc. He also speaks of money, and thinks he owes you 4 Rup, certainly not more. He asks his wife when we two shall return, as he hears nothing from me. Poor fellow what will he think when he hears that only half our stay is over. For today it is 3 weeks that we left. - I shall try to get some paper for the school. - I hope you will in future have less trouble with Hagar. It is a pity to see how those people are occupied with their bodies. But let us be thankful for having been brought up in a better way! -

Lehm. says now and then he repents not to have joined the Church Mission, and is grieved esp. to hear that there is no prospect of riding and smoking at Mangal. (They vex him occasionally with descriptions of Mang. as if all the brethren there were Sanyasis) He seems to understand no joke about the belly. - Müller the watchmaker heard from Irion that his brother is quite well again and no talk of his going to Malta. So if Hebich has the courage to do it let him write for Ir. and see that he make the best of it. Perhaps he may come with Herm. Anandrao. But the sooner the better!

Mögl is with Anderson settling his accounts there. Then I have a hard work before me - accounts kept first by Mrs Bühler then by Stanger then by Mögl and Jacob and Anderson etc - a fine confusion. Somehow or other it will be concluded.

Now love to you all! The Lord be with you and the children! Regards to Miss Kegel Jacob Joseph etc
 Yours HG.

