Revd H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal 17th <Juli 50>*
 <Wednesday>*
Dear Papa

A little while after you had left Mr H. came riding hoping to find you still here; that very evening poor Paul had three flagings for his obstinacy after I had given him with the hand I asked will you be good? No the same answer after the matchel <Ruthe>1, however he is now pretty good, Frederic who was witness appeard rather astonished, they are both nicely. But what for <hebichisch>1 night have you had in the boat and even in the day what a rain, I was a little afraid.

I have sent to Telli. to inquire for the horsekeeper who brought your present horse or for a better one, but nothing is to be got from that quarter. here I am afraid these tamil people are all drinking. Shall I venjure to send you the horse with the one we have? Untill I have an answer to this I make Jacob the cook to ride the horse now and then You may imagine how glad this one is, He is good temperd and does the work well,

M H intended to go to Anjercandy to day, We expect him to morrow as usual, Mrs Huber has been safly delivred of a boy. Marie has heard to day from Basle from the LaRoche Layer still in Stutgard at which the Comit‚ is displeased it appears. I suppose that H has sent you letters if there were any for you I have seen nothing here. Irion has gone to Calicut for the Baptisem of Fritz' child, she has not gone, Carles walks, to day our house has got the adition of a cat, a cow with a calf. The poor old horse keeper is very ill and no hope of his leaving his house for a long time; we do very well without him one of the girls teaches the little ones during the time Joseph is triming the lamps etc.

I hope Nathanael is doing well? his wife and child are well and send salam All here is as usual; Paul goes often in your room with a stick in his hand colling Apa, he is very much pleased with the little cat calls him naye. Judas is still in the hospital to care for the Vetuvati

Now and then Frederic asks when you will return, he will says he go in the nondry <toni>1 to fetch you back.

In your next tell me much of the dear Mogling and of the people above too Dear Frederic did not appear at the time to feel your going away, but now even at night when he gets up he asks where is papa when will he come 
Now good bye. May God give you a blessed time with dear Mog. and also after he has left.

Love to all
 Yours aff J. Gundert
Thursday morning

