Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

38 Mangalore 21 Sept 50
 <Saturday>*
My dear wife

again a week closes and no prospect as yet of going. It rains continually - there is not a bit of wind - neither are there sails for blowing into, why then should it come. No Pattimar as yet has arrived from the South or is going to Cannanore. And if I have waited 4 or 5 days longer and appearances do not change I shall at last try the pony for my return and hope he may be able to bear me softly enough.

Tomorrow you have the Lord's Supper, so have we. I am glad to partake of it once at least while I am here. Mögling writes still in good hope he feels that he has been near death and is recovering - still he can visit the meeting of the Revision Committee only every other day. Mrs W<eigle>* is everything that can be desired, no trouble with milk or breasts: nor even with the bowels. The little fellow was so big that his first cap required immediate enlargement, nothing it seems would fit. He is therefore in very good humour and has every reason to be so.

Mögl has seen the Groves and described them in a letter to W. Both are very grey their little one looks as if a grandmother had at once got a grandchild. Mrs Gr was very kind and pleased him. She gave him time to speak also he did not speak so rapidly as usual. He thought they were at first a little shy (on account of Minchin?) but after all Mrs Gr. seemed determined to pet him. She reproached him half in joke with having taken us from them: he defended himself quite in detail. Frank is the great spring of the sugarbusiness. If he stays M thinks that will succeed: but he looks sickly. Mrs Fr Groves he says is a very fine and good woman. Gr. preached in the Independt chapel. Afterwards when asked by the Brn (Missionaries) M. said he would not offer to Gr. a pulpit, but desire him to be ordained: though of course he would invite him to speak in all other assemblies. He hopes that this will not have been reported to grieve the good old man. M. is sure that both of them are growing in life, and surely this is the main concern. The Lord be praised for it.

Mrs Lasc. sends you plenty Selams. She interests herself much in John and pays for his books which he had pawned at Honore. She also trys to do what she can to induce his wife to come and join him. But no hopes as yet. She seems to wish it, but the relations keep her shut up and say she is gone to Sircy. That's of course a lie. They have tried all sorts of ceremonies, have burnt a doll and then resolved to regard him as dead and her as a widow. He is glad to be free from the service of the Officer but it is not as yet determined what he is to do when I go, join at once the first class or travel to follow after Möglg. I prefer the first, but M's decision has not yet arrived.

No news from the 12th NI? Give my love to all in the house, espec. the 2 dear boys. I bring a new stick, which I am sure will please them. Mr Müller made a head of horn to it and Mr Bösinger a foot of iron.

Townsend has written in the Bomb Times to defend us, and "the zealous Hebick". My love to the old zealous man, and my God bless his labour abundantly!
 Ever Yours HGdt

