Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, Bearing

29. 4 Sept <1850>*
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

Much obliged for your kind letters of the 1st and 2d both of which reached me at the same time I am thankful to hear that this attack of poor Vau does now seem to be over and that you will get breathing time before the new trial is to succeed this. - Tell Fred I am glad that he has become so big as to deserve the name of Mr Gundert, so I am sure he will soon give medicine to all the world and swallow it himself without any complaint. - I hope the marriage of H<enry>* and Sarah will not take place too soon: and that I may be present at it. However if it be earlier than that I must just try to comfort myself. - Yesterday evening the horse returned from Homsoor in 8 days and I had not as yet a letter from M to tell of its departure. However now - about noon I got one from Mysore <31 Aug>. He had troublesome work there and is now worse than at Mercara. One of the boys Andrew he felt constrained to order back to Mangalore, because he seemed to have fallen into bad company but the poor boy has declared he would not go on any account. So M dismissed him. - These sort of things are of course not calculated to restore a sick heart. but I thank God that so soon after this he will have received the good news concerning Sh R which had also kept him in a state of anxiety. - If the clou of Fred should be very soft, though not growing to a point, I think it right for you to lance it in time, in order to spare him much pain. - I am thankful to Vau for his Salam. I hope he has also been pleased with the little book as well as Fred. with the __________ - the watch was sent off yesterday and I hope arrived safely. 
The Dr was very well pleased today with my voice - he had 25 dying in the jail from 50 Cholera patients. I am glad the weather is getting better for the dear Hallidays. - Samuel's child died yesterday noon from convulsions (8 days old) Now farewell. The Lord be with us all! Br Heb will send Barth's letter to Miss K with my Salam
 Yours HG.

