 <21 Mrz 50>*
 <Friday>*

My dear Sir1 <Chatfield>*

As I intend to complain before the Tahsildar of an assault made on my guest Dr Graul, a German traveller, and my self by some Nairs, I think it my duty to acquaint you at the same time with the circumstances.

On Dr Graul's wish to see the Valiapatnam fort I set out with him yesterday evening on foot. When we came near the temple before the fort, some Nair youths followed us very close and could not be induced to leave us alone. However they kept within certain bounds confining themselves to hypocritical assurances of their submission and scoffing at our religion, whilst we took no notice of them. But after we had left the fort, when passing before the temple Calari Vatukel, a number of Nairs stood drawn up near the entrance pouring down their abuse on us and encouraging our followers to come to blows. Accordingly 3 of the youths grew bolder whilst the others went away. One tried to seize Mr Graul's umbrella, the other soon after threw the first stone at his back. Then we remonstrated and they retreating to some distance commenced throwing stones and vociferating till they had quite infuriated themselves and thus pursued us till near our house. Happily the heavier stones did not hit. One running after me gave me a blow over the right arm with a branch he broke from a Cashoonuttree. I need hardly remark that we did nothing to provoke them neither retaliated in any way. Not even in a remoter way have I ever offended them having been prevented by illness from outdoor work ever since my arrival at Chiracal, a circumstance to which themselves alluded when deriding our persons. Those whom we called for witnesses, slunk out of the way and thus enabled them with the help of the increasing darkness to continue their play so long. 
Acquainted as I am with the growing impudence of these people which already at times renders it a task to take a morning or evening walk, I cannot help feeling that if they be left unchecked the consequences may yet become more serious. I trust therefore you will if need be stimulate the exertions of the native officials for the discovery of the offenders

 with every regard I remain

21 March 1850




1To the Revd S. Hebick, Cannanore

 Cannanore 11th Septr 1849

Reverend Sir.

I beg you will excuse the Liberty I take in addressing you at this present Critical moment.

Not being able to succeed in getting an Employment at Cannanore or on the Coast. It is my intention to proceed to Bombay where I may be able to get one and not able to do so without honey. I beg you will kindly let me have the Loan of 30* Rupees which I will return at the earliest opportunity. 
 I beg to remain
 Revd Sir
 Your Obedt Servant
 R. H. Jones

