4) Balmatha 20th <Juli 50>*
 <Saturday>*
Ma chere

Yesterday afternoon I received your first welcome letter. You see this is my fourth. Nath. writes also to his wife, quite enough to frighten her without necessity, but you see how much husbds like to be commiserated by their wives. Pauline writes that Lehm etwas fieberisch sey und mache einen grossen Lebtag "ich fange an zu denken es machen alle Maenner so Ntb Du bist eine honourable exception" This was meant for Br M. As I have to answer for him I must take care not to be thought to be like all husbds or men, but to be counted among the honble except's. - One does not say "what for a night" but what a night - To add "for" is a Germanism and Hebichism. Dont be in a hurry abt the horse - as long as it rains so much it would be of no use here wait and all will come in time. When there have been some fine days and the stars visible, then venture to send it with the present horsekeeper but be in no hurry, for as long as M<ögl>* is here I of course prefer to have walks with him. But then seek to have a good servant more for all your business and for a better guard at night, lest there be somehow or other needless alarms. However the Lord is the best guard, to Him I commend you with the children. - Bösinger suffers still from rheumatism. Gr<einer>* I have not seen. but Degg came up, full to the brim, tho' I gave him no occasion to empty himself. Poor fellow, he wanted to know what I came for, all the reasons and warned me against doing dangerous things etc (make plans with M, or betray the Mission into the hands of the Committee? I dont know but people have strange fears) all of course with knowing smiles and innuendos which I would not understand. - Dear M is now sleeping a great deal, he thinks that this will refresh him. He still occasionally suffers from heat, but the symptoms vary much. The codliveroil is indeed an abominable stuff, but may be just the thing for such a poor fellow as I am. I have now drunk 2 spoons for it and fancy I look like a hero. - I hope you end this week with joy and peace - it is the first, the others will also pass quickly. We commend ourselves to the Lord. He will care for us. When you write give me details of daily occurrences, such as Vau's flogging, I congratulate him.
Hoping you are praising God for all
 I remain Yours HG

