26 30 Aug <50>*
 <Friday>*
My dear wife.

I wrote to you in much haste the good news - in the evening I got your letter which somewhat troubled me (still I thought I could at no time better sacrifice a child than just in these days, if such should be the Lord's will - yet on your account I should feel it most grievous and trust the Lord ere this arrives has restored the little __________) - then we drank tea with Christian Jacob Shamrao. He says that many Brahmanyouths now and then speak words in favour of Christianity. So the English school here has certainly not been in vain. This morning I visited his officer Mr Searle who likes him much and comes to our house for his lessons, till the first agitation be over. It does not seem that the schools will be deserted on this account, as he has come hither from Honore and can hardly be regarded as a Mangalorian. God be praised for his mercies!

I am very sorry you have just now such bad nights and hot days. May God ease you soon of this strain on your nerves. The medicine against fever is probably in a square bottle without label, which has some words engraved on the top of its glass stopper, viz. Acon. (that is Aconitum). If you find such a bottle with these letters on it, take about as much as a grain or a drop (or less even) and put it into one of the Hallish bottles, pour water till it be full, shake and let it stand some hours, till it be all slightly coloured than give 4 or 5 drops of the water every 2 hours. It certainly can do no harm, so you need not have the least apprehension in using it. 
Let me now also mention some continually recurring mistakes in your writing (himn for hymn, and in French reigne for rŠgne veuil for veuille, appri for appris) - I do not find it hot, occasionally it is damp and a little stewlike, but again and again the little rains are cooling the atmosphere. - The Cholera has been hard in the jail - more than 20 deaths, and the Dr quite doubtful what remedies to use. God will I hope preserve you from this trouble - if this however should be added to your other trials I shall doubtlessly come sooner than you expect me. I am not anxious concerning you but should not like to see you now all over in hot water and feel that I owe it to you and children to be present and bear my part. With God's help I shall be able more and more to do something and take a greater share of the suffering he sends to us on my back. But do not fear I shall decide quickly. - As for the golden watch, M. first tried the old spring with a new hole, but after 1/4 hour it broke again, so he has put in a new one and it goes famously. The other is not yet repaired. Now peace be with you and yours - also to the 2 Jacobs Joseph and their families.
 Ever yours
 HG

