22. Mang 23 Aug 50
 <Friday>*
My dear wife

Thanks for yours of the 19th received yesterday. You see it was unnecessary to fear that I would rendre la pareille But one thing I do I must write less than I did generally, as I also am writing to the Hallidays - I am glad you were so well at the Lord's supper may our Lord protect you in these last weeks from all harm of body and soul! Poor Mrs Temple, to be so little concerned about the soul of a father! Perhaps she will still feel it by and by, when the concern about the body is more passed. - Arabella has written to N. that his 2 last letters were opened by me, and that he must no more write such nonsense about Coffe, pice and that sort, I think there was more of an offended spirit about her than she showed to you. Don't mention any more what your thoughts are about l'avenir de M.<iss>* W.<ill>* Mögling has great hopes that H.<erm Kaund.>* will get his <(Kaund)>* wife: the care about him perhaps more than any thing has roused him to shake of the spirit of sickness. M. likes her from the little he saw and I believe will try what is in man's power to get her away from her father (now Sadar Amin or judge in Sircy) - I have no objection against your having the piano tuned in my absence. It ought to be however in finer weather, than we have today. Of course I do not know if you find somebody nor should I wish you to exert yourself much about it. Be sure that I shall not tune Anderson's - I should be glad if mine was 1/10 as well in tune as theirs is. 
On the 21st Lehmann arrived. How glad I was that he is not with Hebich. There is something so affected and vain or weak about him (I only remembered his face again when I saw him) that it made me fearful about him. He will perhaps become useful if trained in great retirement. But the intercourse with the English as at Cannanore would be shere poison to him. He had landed and dined at Allepie on his way to Bombay - in the house of the Missionary, which Norton was building in our time. Mrs Lascelles whom he saw in Honore, seems to do all in her power to help on our brethren both in passing thro' and in their commissions and things for sale. But I wondered that she can open her heart so freely to such passers by as f. i. Lehmann - Stanger is still furious against Committee and Oberland and threatens to write against them in the Newspapers. Poor fellow, his anger makes him quite to forget his fianc‚e, whom M. wanted to help him to get out by means of the Committee, but he is quite blind in his anger - Mögl feels daily better at Mercara - he wished to buy my poney which I lent him, as he thought it to go rather heavily for me. but I preferred to keep him, yet wished him to ride the beast till Bangalore, His answer I have not as yet. But I have done. Peace be with you and the dear children! In Christ Jesus  Yours HG

