Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

30 Mang 6 Sept 50
 <Friday>*
Dear wife

I now write chiefly to announce to you a new letter of cousin Hi Perregaux which yet I do not think it necessary to send by post. he only demands for letters of recommendation. I wrote an answer and inclosed it in your letter to dear Uranie he hopes to depart in November "Toute ma famille se porte bien et bons fait 1000 amiti‚s Grandmaman va toujours doucement cependant elle travaille toujours de tems en tems ce qui ne lui fait pas de bien mais … son age on a de la peine … changer ses habitudes." No other news. - Yesterday I tried again to go to the meeting at the Andersons, but it tires me to sit so long. Being much accustomed to water I require to go soon to bed. Posnett the Chaplain prayed hard for the backslider on whom God has laid his hand. On enquiry I found it is the Colonel (White) who is sick and will soon go to sea, leaving wife and sister here. The latter is a Puseyite, one hears, but the wife glad of good words from whom so ever they come. I pay no visits, not even with the Dr <Foulis>*. I was pleased with Anderson thanking God for having spared the Dr in the disease which he had to cure. Also Mrs Walker was in the meeting. Still the same old person. - Hebich has reported to me about his Anjerc. journey. I am glad to hear Timothy is better again. - I often remember those souls on their march and am thankful for the measure of sunshine which they seem to have. Mögl. was less well at Mysore, having had a disagreeable business with his boys at Hoomsoor. He writes very rarely, which alone shows that his progress is not so satisfactory as it was at first. Now love to my dear Sons Mr Fred Gundert and Vau Vau and may they prosper in spite of fever and clous. If only after all they become obedient Children of the heavenly Father! - Mrs Lascelles to whom I have written about Sham Raos wife seems to have hopes that he will get here. This would be a fine victory: the dear youth is learning diligently with me. He is of Hermann's class of Brahmins (the Saraswata) They are much more energetic than the Concanees. - May peace be with you and  Yours HG

