Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

25. Mang. 29 Aug 50
 <Thursday>*
My dear wife

Already 6 weeks passed since I arrived here and 2 since Mögl went away. The Lord has been gracious to me and the late relapse is now quite over. I am enabled to do some little work and am glad of it. My business with Sham Rao begun at first in connexion with Hoch, who intended to read the Bible with him, fell after the first day entirely on me as H. was not well, and after a close intercourse with the youth had once been established it was not adviseable to change again. So we have now gone on, and daily - even to the extent of 2 hours - have I been enabled to converse and pray with him - and if it please God to give him strength for the last decisive step, today or tomorrow he will take his abode with us. At least he has quite given up the idea of running after Mr Mögl. for his relations know it all, a wicked writer on the post office, him self a Brahmin boy had looked thro' M's letters addressed to Sham R. and had announced to his relations that his intention was to run after M. to Bang and there become Christian. Now he sees that his relations - and he has besides an uncle 2 stages from here on the Mercara road - would run after him and perhaps carry him off, he would therefore require a Manjil with posted bearers etc which all would be so much trouble as hardly to redound to the glory of Christ. But I think he is now enabled to be satisfied with the means of grace as offered to him now in this place, and I have to glorify God for having made some use of me old dry stick when I least expected it.

P.M 5 1/2 Sham Rao has just now been with me and the thing is decided upon. He will no more return to his oncle's house, but stay here and take the Lord's reproach for the riches of Egypt! God be praised for it. I have put the whole bargain plainly before him and there is now no more doubt, that he has counted the cost, although of course when the relatives come to try and fetch him, there will be some new trial for him.

I am sure you will join me in prayers for this soul. I do not know what God intends to make of him, but he is certainly a superior person to both Christian and Jacob, as far as his natural talents go and now also in respect to his step, which is much more than with them, his own unsollicited resolution.

M. was very well at Hoomsoor when he last wrote.

Peace be with you
 Yours HG.

Thanks to Halliday for his kind letter

