24 Mang 27 Aug 50
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening I received yours of the 24th. You ask how M. is. He writes from Fraserpett the 24th to Mr And. "I do myself the pleasure of reporting my arrival on the eastern side of the Ghatts in I am almost tempted to say, perfect health, but pray do not tell dear Dr F. or he will think me to have turned foolish. Yet what shall I say? This morning I walked 8 miles on my way from Mercara, this evening I walked 3 miles and rode eight and am now as comfortable as possible. My pulse is only 90 per minute which is surely not much after such exertion, and I have an unmistakeable feeling of a returning tide of health. I therefore thank God and take courage. I believe I am really grateful for the rest which the Lord has given me through my sickness but if He give me health again, when I had little hope in my own mind I shall also in this change rejoice and give thanks." - Then he writes about Shamrao "if I could fly I would return to Mang this night and try to carry off this soul about whom Satan is no doubt exceedingly busy" That is only too true. I am very anxious about him. Yesterday he was 1 1/2 hours with me and certainly understands and feels the Gospel. But - there is no courage as yet, and Christian who knows him of old thinks in his inmost mind that he is not sincere, but only anxious to learn English and to please the gentlemen. This I cannot believe - for I see too many signs of God and Satan being both busy about him - but neither can I believe him so altogether sincere as he appears. He is fluttering, and talks now as if he had to stay on account of his office as Monshee, and then as if he wanted to follow Mr Mögling - yet complains of his inability to go a far way on foot. May the Lord help us to serve the poor youth and may his hour of deliverance from doubleheartedness and fear arrive very soon.

Of Lehmann I cannot say much: he is not to my taste certainly. There is something so vain about him, and that makes him sit most ridiculously on horseback: he is not sure of his seat and tries at the same time to do the thing elegantly. The same also in other matters. So least said is best mended. I am glad he is not with us.
I am again looking up most boldly - and have no fear of ultimate recovery. It will all come in due time. Sometimes I fancy for a moment, I ought just to begin speaking in a meeting with faith and I should have an end of relapses. I do not carry it out as quickly as I write it, but refer it to the hand of God.

Marie <Pillu Kirati>* is certainly a liar, and I dislike from the heart her exclamations about Jesus. You may be sure - without exalting D.<avid>* above his due that he will weigh a little his boasted Rajpoot character before he makes the least offer to a deserted or runaway Tier wife. The temptation on his side will rather be that nothing will be fine or fresh enough for him. However Mörike writes as under an impression that he (D<avid>*) will not live long: and I do not think at all events that the event if it come to pass is to be hastened on by us.

Perhaps I have soon to go to Mulki, for Hoch wishes to have a time of recreation and I cannot bring him to try the wet sheet against his headache. But I shall stand to my post if any thing be moved with regard to the Brahmin youth in whom I am deeply interested.

I wonder if Paul will still know me when I return give him my love and a bit of sweet meat in my name _____ mangoes or _____ ginger or whatever be sweet and sticking to tongue and fingers. It is merely lest he forget me! Dear Feddy I know will never forget his Papa, but come to meet him when he returns and tell him plenty stories of what happened in his absence. With love in Christ Jesus
 Yours HG

