Mrs Gundert, Chiracal

17 Mang 13 Aug. 50
 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

Yesterday evening the steam letters arrived - none for me, yet a good deal of news. You will have heard that Sir Robert Peel is dead - what a loss! But I will not quiz you on your indifference to Politics. Barth wrote from the Basle Anniversary, that there are more visitors than there were for some years. He had visited the Mission girls at Gundeldingen, now 10 in number. Krapff from Eastafrica related plenty of his stories. Sutters father in law made the nonsensical question if Missions may be undertaken in Africa and China because Christ when speaking of the world meant as in Luke 1 only the Roman empire - what a nonsense! Josenhans gave good answers. Lehner goes to America and holds the farewell speech in the Mission garden - A fine man Plebst is to come as printer. He was studying for a Miss[ionar]y when the Dr had to order him for his health to return rather to handicraft. Professor Munier from Geneva was also at the anniversary. Poor Stanger still writes thundering letters threatening to expose Kies etc as well as our Committee in the Newspapers. - Kinloch attacked our Mission in the Madras Spectator - Mögling was about to give some answer, but Anderson dissuaded him from it, because he feared Kinl. might become irritated to publish all sorts of stories as produced by Cannanore tittle tattle. - They have put an Ultimatum to Würth, that if he go not to Mang he be dismissed. So it is well that he came before this arrived. To Mögl. he says that he never had any private feelings against him and that he is happy at Mangalor. But it appears that he and the others in the Oberland have made extracts of all Mögl's letters and sent them to the Comm. in order to show how wicked a man he is. This is only discovered now by letters from home, which reproach Mögl. for not sending also the letters of the brethren to which those extracts were the answers. Though Hoffmann till the very last did all to help those in the Oberland and to oppose Mögling, the brethren in their letters home are now throwing stones after Hoffm and tell the rudest things of him. This afflicts the Comm. very much. But Josenh. is determined to maintain his authority. - Greiner is not quite well these days. He seems to suffer in the lungs - not much, but so as to make a change desirable. This day he spends on Balmatha Degg having returned from Utchila to relieve him. - Mögl. is packing, he sends his things off today, and Thursday evening he departs in the Manjil. I am glad to see him move at last, it seemed as if he could not get away from his work. - We hear just now that Sanderson cannot come to meet M. at Mercara as promised, because he expects Mr Groves to stay some days with him. I suppose it must be John Groves, as Norris is with his sons. Mörike is also perhaps prevented from seeing M at Mysore. Bühler who offered to come and talk about the hill affairs, is offended that M. will have no talk about business, and tho' Mörike had the permission of the brethren to go to Mysore, it has been in a manner withdrawn because there is no money to spare etc -

Nath. writes continually to his wife, to keep well each letter of his: I hope you do the same and what is more steal none of those I formerly received from you. Or - wait only what I shall do! Hoch and Mögl send Selams to you also Mrs Gr. I hope Francis is well again - tell David how anxious Mör. is to hear good news about him give him also my love as to Jacob Joseph and the others great and small, poor and rich etc not forgetting Miss Kegel, nor above all my two Bavas Frederick and Vau!
 Yours HG.

