 Chiracal Mardi soir
 <ca 24/4/50>*
Dear papa

Thanks for yours recieved by coonean. You should have kept him until you come back I did not think about it. I am very glad to hear you are better than when you left, and glad too that you can enjoe the fine wind on the right side of the house, do make use of it as long as possible. I know dear Jane will do for you all what she can and she will be glad if you tell her any thing you may want. Here all is as usual, Frederic asking much for you he thinks you are at Can. Paul is happy, to day both of them have had the weep for eating mud Frederic was rather astonished for it was for the firt time.

Claudia has confessed me that she has given some rice to Coonian who did ask for it, et also to the horsekeper's wife some curry stuff with a little broken rice while her husband was ill, the other women are going rather poorly no confession, but justification on every things I wish to come closer with them I am afraid I am inpart the cause of their spiritual death by my idleness and want of praying with them pray also that I may have more zele and real life et longing for those poor souls comited to us 
Snegam is chifly it seems to me in a dangerous state, she is often speaking of the devil she is afraid of him at night, he is coming to take her away to through her in the sea etc I had her to day and spoke with her, but she has no wrong still after prayer she wept. I told her that if she would not repent it minght well be she would again become mad as she was for some time before. Louise has gone to see her mother on Sunday and has not yet come back.

Mark has again written you a long petition as you see Joseph has heard that he drinks as much as he can afford for it. You will have heard from dear Hebich. I have not since he came back. Marie paid a visit to the Youngs yesterday the horse was rather bad she said however after many fears she came home safe. Mrs Y. spoke of coming to morrow to us. Our boys happy Frederic says staying by me, tell papa Salam and kisses. We are all pretty well Peace, grace and joy be with you love to all, thanks to Jane for her kind note.
 Yours J. Gundert

