5 Mang. 22 July 50
 <Monday>*
My dear wife

In the hope soon to hear again from you I write you again a few lines. The weather is today so fine - it is Heb's day to Anjerc. that I think you will be very much tempted to send the horse. You may do so if this continues a few days. Then I beg you to let Missy seek some bundles of "Schwaebischer Mercur 1848 und 1849" - They would interest dear Mögling. There is a bit of Jany 48 then chiefly March April May June (July?) - of 1849 only Jany - May. This to be packed together for the horsekeeper perhaps in some waxcloth. - I am going on famously - codliveroil morning and evening and plenty of water with the Dr's permission. Heb has written a flaming letter to the Dr to take me entirely into his hands I am much beholden to him for so kind a care for me. But in Manjesw. especially I had in prayer a very comfortable assurance that the Lord will now soon make me well. I speak already better says the Dr than I did when he saw me at Cann. Perhaps even the shaking which for the moment annoyed me such must have contributed to unroot the evil. Still we shall go on slowly - I am now dear M's amanuensis (= secretary) and have heard that Gottfds. are very well hoping for the advent of ...1 Mrs Greiner's Rickele was dangerously ill on Saturday night from inflammation of lungs. They had kept the house too much shut to avoid the Monsoon air, and Mrs Gr. herself said once it was now like a cellar. They quickly brought the child up on Sunday morning - and it recovered. As it was exactly the death day of their Hermann the fear of the parents may easily be imagined. Now it seems to go all well. - Mrs Lascelles writes kindly to Mögl gathering Money for the Mission etc and has brought her husbd so far as to give 20 Rs per month for themselves. - Now may peace be with you and the children
 Yours HG.

