Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

16 Mang 11 Aug 50
 <Sunday>*
My dear wife

This morning I was rejoiced by yours of the 9th. Yesterday I sent a letter of Ebenez and Nath to Hebich. In the latter he explains to his wife the difference between wrath and anger which is produced by love and exhorts her to drink more Coffee. Perhaps you dissuade her from the latter. As for the money to be given to him, dont be concerned, settle with Arab. for Aug. and what he wants we shall detract from Sept. The plates I have ordered long ago: but they do not come to Mang at all times. One must wait for them from the Country. - On the 13th my dear Papa is 67 years old. On the 15th M will depart he takes the poney part of the way to Mercara. He has finished his Munshi business yesterday (Saturday) so he has only to settle yet accounts and the travelling business. - I am glad to hear you saw David, and beg you to write a little more after your conversations, that I may occasionally give some account to Mör who was greatly troubled about him. - I am interested in your acct of the Francis and Hallidays. Give them my Christian love when you take farewell. I hope they will rejoice us by their continuing in the ways of the Lord, and He will surely give them increase even at that strange place!

Francis is better I hope by this time: What did Thamar think in falling on her? Why do you care about my working too much at Mang. I am lazy indeed, write a little for Mögl but do hardly any work with books. I have great rest and quiet and am sure neither friends nor enemies could tell any thing against me on that score. I hope when Mögl has gone to do a little more business, and when the horse returns to pay a visit at Moolky. Meanwhile I walk much and bathe much and feel my voice getting stronger and stronger. I do not ascribe much to the oil, but to the water which is certainly much better than at Chiracal, and above all to the grace of God which it seems will restore me this time.

I am glad to hear that Sneham is thinking more of her soul. May God give her an insight into her heart and into his. It often troubles me, that so many of our people are ready enough to speak of sins before their baptism and know of none committed since that time, however carnal their walk be. I think some times: ought they not to be discouraged from prayer, seeing that they can have no real wants as long as they do not feel sin in dwelling. Ought we not to show them occasionally that just when their walk is pretty correct, and they appear perhaps better than others, they are not worthy of Christian communion as long as they know nothing of sin? for surely truth it is above all what God demands even of the poorest and not to see one's sin makes God a liar, whether that sin be a great crime or the hidden sin of the heart. - Mrs Gr and her children are quite well. We are rejoiced to hear such good accounts from the 2 boys: Mrs Weigle was glad of some particulars concerning them. She always sends you lots of Selams and plenty of love. Albr's have returned to Dh, W's think, they are more distant to them, than when they went away. Mrs W is not sorry for it, as Gottfd was rather a little attracted by A's manner for some time: she was really afraid they would be asked to become godfathers to A's child (don't allude to this in your letters). Now enough for a Sunday letter. I hope there is peace with you all inside and outside and you have great rest. Jo 13,33. is the lesson of this day. M and I pray together every morning. In the evening we have the prayer by turns with the brethren. Today M. preaches his last sermon in Canarese. Now may you be comforted in body soul and spirit with all our brethren and sisters, - kept thro' the little trials of every day for life everlasting!
 Ever yours in Christ Jesus
 H Gdt

