Rev. S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

 Mangalur 21 Aug 50
 <Wednesday>*
My dear wife

I have nothing to answer and am poor of news. Mögl preached last Sunday in Puttur to 2 Officers and the Apothecary: but felt rather tired afterwards his pulse 90-106. Monday morning he was to go farther after 3 days of rest. I am in great hopes that the change will do him good if only he be not troubled again by new stories. He is as yet without any certainty as to his future steps and leaves them in the hand of the Lord. - Nath. writes to Arabella that I bought the 30 plates for 28 1/2 R also other news, which she will tell you when you ask, chiefly about a fence for the door lest Gid. fall out of it. His directions are full of care. It might make you quite jealous, to see what anxious love pervades the hearts of other husbands.

Yesterday evening Würth for the first time held the English meeting. I was astonished after some time to find that he had written it all and was reading as in a lecturing room - where the heart is hardly provided for in any measure. He begun with the prophet Micah. That was rather a jump downwards after Mgl's excurses about the Hebrews (his last peculiarly affecting) 
By the way what did Mrs Graul once remark about the English meeting of the sisters here. Mrs Young has written about it to Mrs Cummin, I think rather unnecessarily.

Here at last is Papa's letter, you will send it to me at your leisure when read, to let it run up to Dharwar. Gottfd is rather pleased to find Albrs more distant since their return from Hoobly: he says Coffin keeps very much aloof from them however just when he wrote Coff. for the first time invited them for an evening. Nothing but good news of Pauline, she seems quite well. - A box for you is announced, it was sent off the 2d May from Basle. - Did I ever hint to you that Hoch intends to marry P. Ecklin, if it be the Lord's will. I should indeed be glad if she was to be a Missionary wife. 
Lehmann is expected today or tomorrow. He spent some days with the Lascelles in Honore. Mrs L expressed herself pleased with him. When the horse comes back I intend to go with Hoch to Moolki to pay a visit to the dear Ammanns. - You sent no watch - why not, if one is broken? I might then bring it back when mended.

I have not forgotten the letter to Halliday's but am still ill disposed for writing. Lying is so much nicer for a young man like myself. I assure you I enjoy the couches here exceedingly - and every writing business is gloriously neglected. The Dr has ordered me to use wet neckclothes, which I am doing now already the 3d day, besides innumerable jumps into the Zuber. Now the Lord be with you all farewell!
 Yours HG

