Herrn J. Hesse, Missionshaus, Leopoldshöhe (Baden), Postlagernd 
 8 M. <1881>*

This morning erst (nicht gestern Mittag) erhielt ich eure lieben Bfe und antworte nur kurz. Ur und Frd will arrive (as you) about 7.10 in the evening of Tuesday. Not necessary that anybody go to meet, rather embarrassing when one takes _________, Fr knows to do the thing. You need not lodge him if there is want of room. He goes farther to Winterth. Tomorrow he must first go to St. for Dav's sake on account of the Ausstellung unsres Verlags. I had Mission meeting in Church, thought Haer. was at Waiblingen for his friend's investiture, but hear, he lies abed with inflamm. of throat. - Frey wrote to Jett I. that nothing is to be done if he cannot show that Alb. is being neglected. Seems to have no mind of moving in the matter. - Dav's child had a sort of attack in the night of Friday, cough and no breathing for about a minute, but it did not return since, had frightened them enough. We don't tell Mama, who however is really better and helped Ur to pack. - Oil can make a boy a king but it must be of the right sort. - Today Sam gone home; it touched me that a young man came to offer himself for B. I told him to write quick and hope he is not too late. Krauss knows him, he is from Schömberg (called _______________) - In Steinhs there was great cleaning last week, Jul sleeps now in a large bed, and Lid. is upstairs, they wonder what will become of the little bed. - Jgfr Mine was here, in her old state, somewhat distracted - If J. comes to Pfzh I need not say that C is not very distant from that place and that there is abundant room somewhere. Alice was today in the meeting with Louise Kl. - The letter of Ost. may wander into the Archives!

Wishing you all a good night I remain _______ (Tuesday to St.) 