<(ad 395)>* Calw 23 Januar 1881.
 <(erh. 15. Febr. 81.)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Your last letter dear son gives us the hope to see you this year D V. this news has given us great joy <(der Brief nach dem 6 Jan mit Beschr der Gem Vers. ging verloren. Mama hörte dann nicht, daß ich das Jahr nicht kommen könne>*. Uranie and myself, forget not to salute her when you write; she loves you and yours dearly she works much more than myself she is stronger than me, she makes lace the whole day and the evening she helps papa to put in order the Briefmarken which Frederic sells for the mission. when she heard you are coming to Europe she said I am soon going to make lace for Tine and her girls. If the Lord spare us so long I shall be very happy to see you, and those who may be with you, our joy shall be in the Lord to find each others in Him who is our life. You will have heard already that Maries baby is a very delicat child, they are now seeking a nurse the midwife says it is the only mean to safe the child' life. Your dear Tine has been favoured to be able to nurse her own children, Poor dear Marie is much troubled, I come just from her house, and have seen how the baby drunk milk from a woman as if she had always had the breast, one hopes if she can keep it in her stomach that she may get over, pour child has been decreasing the last weeks and looks very poorly, she is a sweet beautiful child very intelligent. Hermann <(von Samuel)>* in our house is getting nice while his sister Agnes is selfish and trying to rule every one, she turns her mother round her finger, she cries fearfully till her will be done, while in the begining she was the most aimiable child except jalous at other babies. Your good letter at my birthday I have of cource got; but as letters are usually sent about I forgot to thank you and mention it. Thats nice that Julie gave you such nice uberzier which cost just like the one Uranie gave to papa

With much love and kisses to yourself dear Tine and your four daughters of whom I feel proud I remain
 yours affect J. G.
Much love from Uranie
