<(Zwi 411-412)>* <Calw. Montag>* 7 June 81
 <(erh. 25. Juni.>*
Dear Children. [Hermann]

It is a long time since I wrote you a line; you will have heard that I have been again ill. the Lord must use the rod often with me, may I at last understand and follow in obedience. He has long patience with me. the most painful in the illness is to be as it were without light and faith. Thanks to God that it is already better; May I have the fruits of the trail to Gods praise. A believing and thankful heart which overcometh in the blood of the Lamb

To day papa with Frederic Julia are going to Stamheim for the orphen feast Great many people from Calw are going. Uranie is in Cormondrech, writes happy and well, salutes you and yours. We had joy to see John who came from Bale for a Mission feast to Pforzheim; His health is as usual, often headache and the bowels not in good order, however he has courage and has good appetite, though the sleep is not quite sufficient, usually from 3 the morning he is awake

Emma <(Friedrs Frau)>* is waiting for her confinement <(eine kl. Emma kam 7. Juni)>* since a fortnight. she is well and happy Elisabeth has been 10 days <(20-30 Mai)>* in Stutgart with her children, Herman is a nice obedient boy, gentle, Agnes is some what high minded seems to feel her digniti; but she can be very aimiable, she speaks but a few words, her brother must obey her, if she wants any thing she says baby and she must have it. 
Now dear son give my hearty love to my dear Tine, to your dear daughters With a kiss
 Yours affectly
 Julie G.
