<ad 433 und 434.>* Calw 6th <Sonntag /7 Montag>* Nov 81
 <(erh. 28. Nov. Mo)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Many thanks for your kind letter <(No. 431.)>* of 1 October and for all your good wishes on my birthday. The Lord is gracious and full of mercie and long suffering I have but to praise Him. for myself and mine. I shall be glad if the Lord bring us together, at least if you can see and hear papa may he be for you as he is for me, his prayers and meditation of the word of God are such a blessing that I wish you and many others be partakers of them. I cannot express you how much I injoy the two hours in the week which papa gives us in frensh. I think that Uranie too profits by them.

All the news you give of your dear ones cause us much joy begining with baby Tinele or Samelin who is now so well Emma the good keeper, Mariele dilligent house Mamele, and Julia who by Gods grace was so soon deliverd of the severe illness of which many die here too, lately the only daughter of a widow died 9 years of age she was glad to go to her Saviour. And my good Tine through the little trayals of this life learns to have good cofidence in the right Phisicient, who is always ready to help and will only create faith in us by the trials He sends; we learn to pray to look to Jesus and as faith increases thanks and praise come along, it is some thing worth if we learn to believe and to thank with a greatful heart. Dear Julia I pitty her to have so many little ones trying her patience; but the Lord will also know the right time to give her something better mean while learning is good and specially praying. Agnes is as our chistianele was a fine girl and like her, found of eating sand and earth were ever she finds some. Yours have not been so eating? With much love to my dear Tine to the dear daughters and kisses
 Yours affectionate J. G.
