<(ad 423 und 424)>* Calw 29 <Montag>* August 81
 <(erh. 16. Sept 1881)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

I was glad to hear by your last letter that you think in earnest to come to Europe; for I believe it will do you good to have a time with papa you will find that with him the moto is work as long as it is day. work a doing which shall abide in everlasting. I wish very much that you may be with him some time, it will fitt you better for pastoral work in America. One looses usually much time in small and indiferent matters while the only needful one is neglected. We all know that the time is short, that we should rediem our time; and we cannot do that with out watching and praying, for our enemy is always about

We hope that your dear baby is getting over the illness which made you and us anxious about her, and I trust that dear Julia shall not be too disapointed if she is not appointed for the school, to learn house keeping well with her mama is more useful for a good house wife than teaching. 
Today the 28. Uranie is in Bale on her way to Calw. Frederic has gone to fetch her in Cormondresh. She comes sooner than we expected. When you come to Europe you shall on your way pay a visit to my brother Frederic, his wife has been ill; but is well again. The children of Elisabeth are very nice they are soon to leave our lodging as Frederic takes it for his work instead of the parterre which is too damp and unhealthy.

Much love to my dear Tine and to your dear daughters, with a good kiss to each
 Yours affectionate J. G.
