<ad 439>* Calw 18 </19>* Dec 1881 <Sonntag>*
 <erh. 7. Jan. 1882>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

First of all many thanks for the Photog of dear Tini which has caused us much joy, she looks so well so young that we are really much pleased and thank God for the hea[l]th He gives her, Your last letter has made us some what anxious about your dear baby who was unwell just after she had been wiend; her pour Mama will have had sad time and I feel with her how gladly she would have continue to nurse if it had been possible; tell her my true sympathy and wish that baby may soon be restored. I hope that by this time fears are passed and all have occasions to be thankful and joyful. But now with you dear Son it is more serious, how we long to see you, hoping that rest and the journey will do you good. We had no idia that your health was shaking, and gave you some anxiety; we heard some time of catahrh as one has usually; and it peined us to think that inspite of cold and cough you had often to travel by all sorts of weather. Dear Herman tell us all about your self we feel uneasy about you and what can we do? but tell it to our Lord who can help beyound prayers and understanding. we look already in patience for your next letter.

We hope also that the Lord gives you a happy Christmas and new year for you your dear ones and for the congregation, a revival is that which we want; to know Jesus and the power of His resurrection. Today papa is in Hirsau for the meeting; we have strong wind and much rain, not at all cold. 
Much love from Uranie, and from me to my dear Tine and her daughters a tender kiss, and you my dear son best love till we can in reality kiss you  Yours aff J. G.
