No 4 1Calw 31 october 1865

My very dear Marie,

When you left I thought I would write every day a few lines so to have a long letter ready when the time is there to send you letters; but elas your old mama is just the same as ever does not know what to write, although she is with you daily ja and how often? Oh Marie it is true you are gone! I must quiet my heart and feelings! On the 7th came Miss Kern who remained a few days, she went to Hirsau and was inchanted of papas meeting, I think she was nice and happy. afterward Jette went with her to Stutgart on account of her Aunt who was troubled as usual with house servant girl, Sophie etc now all is well again and Jette came soon back. On the 10th Paul left us I felt much grieved and cast down that he remained so hard and bitter against God, since that he has written me twice french notes, to his papa he writes that he is interested in a reading <lesson (dogmatik)>* he has with Ephorus on the being of God, His being in all, and all returning to Him, May God bless this reading that he may learn to believe, Dear P, showed a good deal of hatered against the Epho. perhaps these lections will open his eyes.

Paul Mohl was also with us 6 days papa had a good deal to do with him; for he had been shaken by Baptists and Darbists so that he was moved to leave his study; be baptised and preach Christ, his mother who was greatly troubled is glad that in Calw he resolved to finish his study, we liked him well he is very earnest, some what sad, Louise Zahn paid us a visit she is very nice, she told me how she daily prays for the Georgie's family as well as Rickele Reinhart, it did me good to hear that, so perhaps every or nearly every family is praid for by some children of God, let us be faithful to pray daily for many let us encrease our number and be faithful watching unto prayer. Fraw Heller des messner's wife died happy in the Lord after three days ilness. Anna Wagner is bride with Mr Federhaf, I visited the old lady. On your birthday Miss Adelaid Keiser brough a bouquet and many other friends congatulated, that we thought specially of you, you know and have felt it. Miss Lodholz cousine of the Wöhrle is bride with Zigler of Tubingen the son of our tuchmacher. On the 21 Mrs Lamparder got a daughter, mother and girl very well, he was on the journy and returned 6 days after his child was born, Marie is not yet here; but will soon come, The young Seifried who was with them in Reitlingen became ill was obliged to return, he has brought with him the peace he found in the Fink's house, where he was very happy. Frederic is with Adolph feels himself very happy Hebich comes there once a week, has a meeting David goes there almost every day. Frederic spent last Sunday with us, sends you much love he is nice, in Stutgart all wish for your letters, Isenberg, G. and Weiss. Mr Dörtenbach our neighbour very ill they ask much after you, like if one visit them asked to pray that he may still live, he keeps very quiet, he does not want news like Mr Keiser. Charles Mörike gone to his rest his last words were be he could not tell beten; but died trying to put his hands together, we went there for the burial papa spoke, Since you left Louise has been well she sends you gruss. Paul writes me french notes Charles has not written us a word, but I send him a kiss and to you many
