 (Calw only in thoughts Basel 13 Sept 65)
My dear wife

In Liebenzell Herm. and Miss Wurm (Hermine) met us at the post and gave us their best wishes. We ate all you gave us, I attacked even the Wurst a little; but some grapes etc went to other passengers little children and a brave boy who went into the Vacanz to Basle. Here 2 brethren Lörcher and Toggenburger were dismissed for China, which was a nice evening on the whole; only we were dreadfully tired and took but half a part in the proceedings. Philipp went his way out of this world on Monday night, which a telegramm announced. His father was earnestly prayed for by the Inspector. Philipp seems to have had no fear about dying but strange to say, he had picked up some words from I dare say wellmeaning Christians, as if his soul would have to pass through a great deal between dying and seeing the Lord. Inspector who saw him told him of course that there was no purgatory to be found in Scripture. Poor fellow I read through his journal kept in Germ. and Mal. often very meagerly, mere notices but his struggles are also mentioned often in touching words, chiefly the decay of the spirit of boldness, which of course was connected with his disease. The "chestache" he mentions already in 62, talked often with Doctors, but in a way more to hide than to manifest what he was ailing from. I shall yet write some words to his father. I hope before I leave this. - Saw Mr Schultze the printer whose son remembers Paul and Fred. Visited the girls' institution and Mrs Hoch, whose mother remembers you with great affection and sympathy. Your letter to Marie was a very bright idea, so soon after our departure. She was of course much touched by all the love following her, and I felt glad that it is a real sacrifice we are called upon to offer to the Lord. Nice people plenty here about, also a poor Negro wife of Br. Rottmann and his 4 children with their woolly heads! Now love to all, to morrow I hope to go on to Schaffhausen

Farewell -
 Your H.
