 Calw 23d March 65
Dearest Frederic.

We have had several letters from you of late all pleased me well, the Lord does not leave you alone but again and again knocks at your heart and gives you also some blessing.

Now that you have the prospect of living afterward with Onkel Adolph I would beg you dear son to employe the time you have still in tante s house in learning frensch as much as possible you cannot afterward get such a good opportunity, try David with you to have one hour with Leon as often as possible or with your friend Paul.

Mr Wirz has sent your black tuch I trust it will be enough it is only a little bit more than three yeards, I will send it to day to the tailor, but I dare say he will not be able to make it very soon because he has much to do on account of the confirmation. are you in a hurry about it? You have see the parrot Mrs. Sheffel brought from Basle, poor thing was nearly dying. he poured down the lampe full of Earthoil upon himself brocke it of course and he was for a moment alone covered with the glass and oil. When Martha entered the room she heard the poor fellow groaning one washed him well, he looked very sad, but now he eats again, and one hopes he will live.

Now I must say Adieu. Give my love to all in your house
 Yours J.G



1Jetzt bin ich mit dem halben lexicon fertig. Es ist aber eine harte Arbeit gewesen. Am Sonntag war der Basler Müller noch Abends bei uns, der dann Briefe nach Basel mitnahm. Herr Dr Krapf hat mir auch geschrieben als neuer Vetter; laß Dir die Verwandtschaft gelegentlich erklären. Man kommt in ganz neue "höhere Kreise" hinein!

Auch noch herzlichen Gruß an Theod, dem gib die gemalte Beilage für seine Mädle
 Dein V.
