<No. 7>* 1Calw 14ten Dec 1865

Liebste Marie.

Nur eine paar worte in deutsch dir zu beweisen daß die Mühe die du dir gegeben hast ist nicht ganz umsonst gewesen, ich habe eine wahre freude zu sehen und abschreiben wieder und wieder die buchstaben die du mir für Muster gegeben hat. Oh Marie! wo bist du? schreibe mir doch alles alles Many things come into my mind which I should have told you, you are now gone is it true? no more to see each other in this world. Oh I hope you are happy and that you love each other in the Lord. Oh dear Charles love my Marie and value what you have more than I have done. Dearest Marie write me separet a few lines you know what I want "quiet my bad conscience.

Helfer Schmid was just here I told him your words about his son, he was much pleased and charged me with kindest regards for Mrs Isenberg. She is still a good friend of the Weit. less with the Decan, one findes fault where one can and compares her with Mrs Dekinger as a busy body running about schwazing talking much. It is true that her children are some what neglegted, for having too many visits to make.

On the 6th came your letter from Cananore great joy, Emelie had already come some times to ask after news for she had dreamd one had come. I can well imagine your joy at seeing again all the girls and people you had known, and after all Charles, ja ja he has stolen you! Lydia's letter is just according to your description of the girl; but I am sorry one leaves her so just like a black girl, she is as ever it seems very affectionate but weak and some what born‚e, these last days your virtues your strength, your persev‚rence, all your good qualities were put to remembrance, we have made our Springerle, Lebkuchen, tee brotle; we found it so hard so difficult that we said often how did Marie this all alone, ja she kept in her room working some hours perspiring hard, really every day some new discovery of your hidden virtues appear. Louise is again in bed having worked too hard at the goodle. I felt also some what miserable and trust next year to make less if we live. We had some hopes that the suden death of the Epforos would work on Paul; but till now he does not show any thing. Not even refering to remarks made to him how long and how many stroks must God employ? but the Lord be praised for his work in Frederic, he lets David not alone, one can feel there is some thing of God in him.

Every tooth the poor little Carl Scheffel gets he is ill, fever or something else; but he is a nice good boy. On tuesday and friday I walk with papa. Jettle has her lessons with Zilling, the other days she likes to walk, Emelie comes also some times. In Hirsau the meetings are to be in the school room it is too small, some ladies of Hirsau have long desired it would be in school, for they wish to come too, and since the Metodists have Stunde here more people come to Hirsau. Widman has told Sell not to come to his Stunde again, because poor, good Sell has meetings with the people who are attracted by the metodists Mrs Springer who had several death in the family, seams to be anxious about her soul, she goes to Widman Stunde, she came yesterday wept much, regrets to be so back ward, Mrs Rank or rather Mrs Friedrich goes also to the metodist meatings Mrs Pelargus with her girls too, Rösles Wirt where the meetings are will no more give his Salle to dance. Mrs Marie Stälin is greatly displiesed at every one going to this meetings she makes as if she had a right to watch over the people lest they go no more to church,

What you have to buy your water, do you bath in salt water perhaps, is it to bring water or really for water that you have to pay?

the 10th we have been in Hirsau had the meeting in the school for the first time the Minister was there too; there were many people the room which is pretty large was full.

I have just visit Mrs. Wöhrl, she is pretty well only cough on account of which she cannot go out; she was very freindlich. I saw also Mrs. Lamparder who is well except one of her brests which is open, but on the other side she can nurse her littl one who is growing visibly, she is very healthy and strong, sleeps nearly the whole night. they have good news from Reitlingen except that the father Finkh is rather ill; they will not come for Christmas. I saw also Mrs Reischer they both send you much love they were greatly concerned about you, having red somewhat about Jamaika and thought you may be there!

These days I have been running pretty much about with my bag full of goodly tractate I have none. I miss Dr Marriot very much, today our little Verreincircle got their share they were but 9 usually 11. two decan, Zilling, posterle, Teuschle, 2 Steiger, Schroat, Bozenheart, Schram.

Bertha S. was ill, is now better, I visit often Mrs Dörtenbach who has much heimweh; till now nothing new about her. From Corcelles, heard that Henriette has had the smallpox, great pains, is now better, news about you have been sent to Marie Monn Herman writes that his wife has pain in one hand a kind of ring warm or ‚ruption which gives her pain specially in winter she expects an addition to Julia. Today I heard that Emelie Seger cannot eat lebkuchen on account of the honney which gives her much pains! The young Mr Shauber was once in the Verrein appeard much pleased, gave some mony for which papa had begged as one was in want, he gave also some to Steiger which was wellcome, The poor Stadtförster are again in want, she expects an addition and have nothing. I dare say you will learn to do like your papa who after having shaved carried his drop of water which remaind on a plant pretty far away, your roses will get such water perhaps. Now your next will tell us many desired news, love and kisses to you both, do you accept them dear Marie? Oh Marie!

the poor Rickle Hass is getting warse so that one will try to put her in Winenden
