 1Calw 12th Februar 65
Dearest Marie

It is but 7 days you are gone, however the time appears to me long. Apropos that I forget not could you perhaps during your stay at Tubingen visit the widow of Stadtförster Schaupp she is near Tüb<ingen>*, but where I do not remember and I do not find her letter / yes here is her adress <Pfrondorf>*. if it is too far for you, you might write her a few lines and she would perhaps come to you

that was a nice letter from Charles, specially that feeling, how much he needs prayers seing how little he has if not given again and again, this knowlege alone makes fit for Gods work, for then we distrust ourselves and learn to take from the Lords fulness grace for grace this is a secret which we have to lean as long as we live and blessed are those who have well understood, they walk humbly giving all glory to their Lord.

You leave us rather long without a letter it is to day 8 days you left and behold a single letter has reached us. Yesterday Jettle and I visited Mrs Dörtenbach who is still in bad, she inquiered much after you and your Charles she seds you love and many others who ask after you. Mrs Wöhrle has visited us; she was very nice I shall soon see her and Mrs Lambarder who is always very friendly.

Give my love to all the dear people in Tubingen also the relations of Mrs Schaufler. I have seen Mrs Decan, to day he is to come here with the other gentlemen who have sitting comite for the Mission, a Caffele as you know, you gave it last year as I kept in the washing roon washing this year we shall wash on the 2d March Thursday D.V.

Mrs. Wirz is still wayting but hopes the stranger may appear this week. 
Now my dearest Marie I wish you much joy and also blessings during your journey, tell also Charl W that I have given his sledge to the Steiger explain him the family and their want Love to all those who know me but especially to dear Marie F
