<N 8>* Calw <31 Decbr 65>*

My dearest Marie

On the 15 letters have been sent to you on the same evening there came a letter through Triest I said it is not from Marie it is not her writing; Jettle said it is, I then felt half ashamed that that I should not know it and thought well perhaps Charles has put the adress! Jettle sure it was from you run to papa saying somebody is down please come, we wanted papa to read it to us in the sitting room, poor papa did not like much to leave his Malayalim to see somebody, as he came Jettle triomphante shoed him the letter and I cried oh read it to us hear, he said What for shall I read you Lechler's letter? We were not a little ashamed at our mistake. Oh Marie it is some time hard. had I done in this way or in that it would have been better, Oh, had I no reproches to make me it would be easy but! you know all. I trust Charles loves you tenderly dearly it will be a comfort to me. 
Sunday we have been to Hirsau many people were there Mrs Kameralvervalter and Miss Feltweg from Hirsau a good many, also our good Roller from Aldburg. he praid very nice and frish. Today the Jungling Verrein have their Christkindle I am invited with papa. Mrs Ansel is to be there too. We have just paid a visit to the helfers papa and I, they asked much after you, and thanked for your inquiries after the helferle, he resembles his papa, she has no more milk, so the boy lives on soup and brile, on our way from the helfer we went to the Jungling V. and found very nice, the two rooms full 30 young men round the tables before each of them a large ring made by Schnürle. I suppose some appels and wine, also books provided by papa, Cigars by Mr Schauber who has been once in the Verrein and gave some money; after papa had made his Mama to feel that one was in want or rather in debt. Mrs. Ansel told me her joy that her son is truly converted, he tells to his sisters, if you knew what a joy I have in the Lord you would also seek him. he has a good deal to bear in the fabric from the others who mock and laugh at him, happily that he has Roser there, he R and Wöhrle looked very happy this evening serving at the tables. Lamparder was also there rather friendly. Mrs Wöhrle cannot go out on account of her cough; but she is pretty well I have been rather often to visit her. To day 18th came Tusnete and Sophie Z who spent the day with Martha learning from her to make things for Christmas. Mrs Gross was here too, she had much to buy, they are much troubled with Herman who makes debts in Witzhouses in Stut, they will let him go to America in spring; for he will not hear them. Sophie Zimmer is most happy, and thankful to get such a husband. we are all invited in Zafelstein papa is to preach on Christmas there.

19th tomorrow we have wash. You have happily no more such trouble, but you have I suppose to pay rather much per month as the water is so rare, if we had still a big wash like in your time we could never hang it, there is not a second quick hanging Marie, but in washing every four weeks it, goes well, and is cheaper too. Paul sends his every 8 or 9 weeks. I have never longed as this time for Christmas to see the children! Herman has written; but I do not understand his letter.

23d half a hour after Frederic and Paul had come came your letter, so for our desert we had the joy to hear all about your marriage, your visit to Mang. and to Bombay. hearty love and thanks to dear Charles it has comforted me to hear that you are so happy; may the Lord increase it with your years together as He has done it for me je the longer je better! Your letter has been like balm on my wounded conscience Oh Marie it has been hard for some days, if I could not again and again take refuge in the blood of Christ to wash away all my want of love and tenderness towards you I would be depressed continually; the Lord be praised to have so provided for you that you are in some measure dedomag‚e; We miss you very much these days, every moment I find something to do which you were accustomed to do; which I did not know then, to have something more to do is not my complaint; but you know what I mean Oh Marie pardon me! You were ill in Bombay, you must take care about food, not hot carry and study what hurts you, one can help a good deal in being careful with eating, Specially if you should get in family way, eat no Cucumber or things which might give you diarrhea, the first Mrs. Muller had once a misscarriage from having eaten Cucumber, also not take too long walk and nothing to make you womit except when it comes naturally on the whole no medecine if possible, but keep the bowels open daily by lavement or caster oil in small doses.

Our Christmas went on very quietly, Frederic, Paul were pleased with her presents F got Juppe and trawsers, with books from papa Paul got musigbooks, Jettle books and the collar I had from Miss Buser, papa got 3 pounds wuks Candels I a loosungbook, we were all contended, but we missed you much and David, however he comes soon, only you not, Decan is ill so papa has to preach here. I see often Mrs Dörtenb but there is nothing new as yet, she complain she cannot pray, cannot understand that which she reads, she has much heimweh etc

26 Dec, was our Christianele's birthday and has been our Paul's spiritual's birthday, one can now say of our P as god said once of Saul to Ananias behold he prayes. Yea, God has began his work in him, He will also carry it on to his Glory. I feel there is not only joy in our house but also in Heaven for this hater of God, who has often said I will have nothing of thee go way far from me! yea God who has been so treated, has had merci on his enemy and gently recieved him, Could we only praise God worthsily and so learn to believe trusting him fully. The loosung I had last year was, take thy delight in the Lord, he will then fulfil the petitions of thine heart, this promise is realised in part Glory to God. Oh dear children may God bless you reachly. in your own souls and for the congregation, when troubels come fear not the Lord will only increase your faith through experience of trials. Believe this I wish you for 1866
 your J.G.

Could you see Paul on his papas laps leaning on his bosom, you would weep for joy. I think of the prodigal Son returning home, his father embracing him. God has done great things for us poor Sinners. May you see some souls or rather many coming to Jesus such joy is uncon...
