 Calw 4 Dec 65
Lieber Friedrich

Dein Brief von gestern hat uns recht gefreut. Gewiß können wir dem HErrn Ehre machen und sollens, es ist eine Aufgabe aller Mühe werth. Das Überwinden scheint nicht leicht und doch lernt man es lieb gewinnen, wenn mans probirt hat, es muß doch unsrer innersten Natur angemessen sein, sonst hätte es Gott den Menschen nicht als ihren Weg angewiesen. Die Engel dienen nur, wir sollen überwinden. Thun wirs, so wirds im besten Fall schwach gerathen, aber doch hat Gott Seine Freude dran und wir den hellen Profit. 
Vom lieben Paul kam nichts, wir gedachten aber sein gestern und hoffen der HErr führt es herrlich hinaus.

Von Moerike höre ich daß er Schlosserstraße 8 in Frau Prof Kern's Logis eingezogen ist. Am Mittwoch wird Mögling bei ihm sein, versuche doch auch sie dort zu treffen. Beide kennen Dich schon von frühe her, bes. seit Deiner Nilagiri Reise 1851. Nun lebewohl
 Dein V



 <15 Dec 65>*
1Dearest Frederic

Hearty thanks for your last which has given us much joy. I could not write after it had arrived; but it is soon enough to day, thanks have we given to God for his faithfulness and love to you. Oh yes dear Son, we can overcome by the grace of God and the promises made to those who overcome are not only for after our death, many are already realised now, for instance to eat of the tree of life. we get already some, also of the hidden Manna, the white Stone with a new name which no one knows except he who has it, will be fully in heaven; but some have a fortaste of it like Abraam when he received Abrahams Name and Jacob, Israel, Peter Rock etc We have to do with the Lord we know what he tells us, Power over the Nations we shall get in his time when He shall tell Oh thou faithful servant thou hast been faithful, reign thou over ten cities or over five. the white gown we shall get to sit at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. Some receive already grace to be pillars in the temple of God now in some measure.

Oh dear Son I rejoice greatly that you read the word of God, may you have hunger and thirst after that bread of life; it is quite sure that it gives us life to read it, in us is no life; we get it in the word for the prince of life is the word which was in the begining. Ye read more and more, God will feed you and make you strong by his word.

I shall look for the paquet hankerchief of P. Gun as soon as I get his wash; here I have nothing of my P. I hope dearest Frederic y take care to keep no biterness in your heart against tante or Mama

 Adieu my dear
 Yours J Gundert
