N 1 Calw 23d Sept/ 65

Dearest Marie.

I was realy grieved to see by your dear and well come letter from Marsiel that you were the only one with Bertha who had no letter from home, papa being not here we did not know one could write there. The Lord be praised who had till then brought you safely through, He will surely guide you farther and bring you safely and happy to the land of your destination. Last night I was long with you, you returned from your journey hid yourself under the table and at once showed yourself just as when you left only somewhat older, after having kissed each other, I asked why have you not continued your journey I like better be here now I may go afterward was the answer! we could then talk long to gether. I have often wished to dream some what about the sons with whom I am often in thoughts but never has it happened.

All the friends here ask anxiously after you, Emelie weeps still often, she comes repeatly and is most amiable, takes Paul in her garden, gathered for us a quantity of Dirlitzen des tierles

A propos in your letter send also salams to the Weitbrecht and the to the Madele Barth who are much interested in you and Charles I have been several times by the Wöhrles who are as ever full of love and sympathy. Mr Buser is here. they will return to Basle next week Mrs. Deselberger has sent you Julius fotograph a bible marker, and a daily bread or a fergissmeinnicht. the last one cannot send you; but it may come once with the salad spoon from Mrs. Fetzer.

Yesterday Mrs Dekinger dined with us she was very busy buying the necessary things for her George who has been recieved the way of grace as seminarist it is of course a great joy Kies is taken as hospess, Mr and Mrs Decan are much grieved that there is no opening for their son he was too far back. I paid them a visit with Paul.

You are of course anxious to hear how it is with our dear P. most lovely and tender with us, asking every morning how papa and I have slept etc. but the same towards God. he does not <believe>* his kindness and love he is pretty much happy with out him, why should he trouble himself to seek him if God will have <him>* let him take him with out giving him any trouble or making him uneasy and unhappy! After this talk with him next morning he inquired anxiously how I had slept and asked why I look sad and unwell. I then said that as long he will have nothing of God I cannot be well for God is my whole and to see him without him and more than that to see his bitterness and hatered against God is beyond all grievous, he then said I am sorry if I would seek God it would be but for my parents sake I can be with out him, and since this talk it seams me that he is somewhat cooler, but I may mistake. Annele, Catherine send you and to Bertha and Nanne Kolb hearty love Louise and many other people send you love Mrs. Shauber and Schütz whom we visited yesterday were most anxious to hear of you. Mrs Shitz had already been here to inquire after you and us

Now Adieu hearty kiss to you to Charles to Samuel and tantele. May you have the presence of the Lord in all things
 yours J Gun
