<No. 6>* <C. 29 Nov 65>*

1My very dear Marie

As I hear that you get at least 14 pages from Ettle and Emelie I will not write much at least not atempt to give you any news. I am just returning from Mrs Wöhrle where Mrs Lamparder red your letter from Madras much love from them all, the little one is very well the Mama too. I had a great joy to see your letter from Madras. So the Lord brought you safe there. I had some anxieties, now it is all right the Lord who has done so well hither to will guide you farther with your dear Charles, by this time you are perhaps in Heidrabad. I hope the dear Plebst were at your Mariage, in Stutgart as well as Jettle here took rather evil <amiss> that you spoke of their thinking not worth while to come to Tellicherry. I trust that all has been well done and no one offended That you and Samuel wished for a quiet time during the marriage is very naturel; we wish it for you too; but with out offence. The Metodists here are making progress meatings every fortnight. Betzner Kaufman goes to them and seems really to be more lively Frederic has a joy to be with the Weiss specially Caroline seems to understand him well. Tusnelte Gross is troubled about her soul, fears that she may not find grace or not be able to persevere. Once she was so affected in speaking of her state to her father that she fell down fainting. May God give grace that it comes to something real they are still much troubled about Herman 
I hope dear Charles is filling up all the wants your poor mama did not understand specially that he loves you tenderly, jea dearest Marie, after Frederic had left us in Indien I thanked the Lord that Miss Kulman loved him so much. So shall I do for Charles love to you. Oh Marie! to day after dinnar as papa would take his walk he said oh if only my Malile wäre da! <Kann mich nicht erinnern>*

You get a nice note from Lucie; from Corcelles and Vevey many questions about you Jette copied out of letters some pages which were sent to them. 
29 God bless dear Charles and enable him this year to bring some souls to his knowlege; peace and joy to you both. Charles Scheffel visited me he is well his mama is in Stutgart for 8 days. In jenuary Martha will go to Mrs Christlieb her cousin who expects a child. Mrs Christen born Martin, was after her confinement very well, but now again so much cough that one has no hope of her life

Adieu dear children
 yours

love from Louise who is not very well
