 <7 Juni 65>*
1Dear Frederic

I thank you for your last it is quite plain enough, I have read it easily, it is to me a great joy since I can read your letters. when they are read to me quickly I have little benefit of them.

You think of our dear Paul that right he wants that one brings him before the Lord who looks still at the faith of those who carry others to him as he did, when the pour sick man carried by four men was brought or put before him through the roof, it is said the Lord seing their faith Mark II.5 he said to the sick of the palsy Son thy sins be forgiven thee. Dear Frederic may you be a lively Christian not half not three quarter; no, but a thourough Christian. people who can not give themselves up to the Lord fully are never happy, they seek always some thing or other and see not that what they want is the Lord. It is said of many of the Kings of Israel they served the Lord but not fully not like David with their all heart. 
Yesterday Mrs. Wirz came to the verrein after a very long time of absence. her son is very strong and well they both have much joy with him. 
Mr. Rieger is here for a week he spent the evening with us he lives with the Dürtenbach

So dear Son we are going to leave Calw Marie and I go tomorrow morning to Basle, on Friday to Corcelles, from whence on Tuesday we return D.V. to Basle where we shall find papa. Apropos, the poor Schlosser Reich has died after an ilness of 30 hours, he did not believe the bibel nor God, he was covetious avare, he knew he would die; but showed no repentance died like a beast!

Adieu dearest Frederic
