 <12 Sept 1865>*
My dear Emma,

Yesterday I heard your last letter to Mama in which you discribe your thoughts of the day. it has reminded me of the past years when it was the case with me quickly finishe at school some pieces of Edging wash and iron them write a note with them which after all was the most difficult part. As I complained of it to Mrs. Weigle she said that she had more than once wept for she had often to write a note in the begining three times over before her good husband was satisfied this was of course only in the begining. I know of some other Sisters who had the same complaints. It is true that one has trouble with the dobies who tear the clothes so fearfully, but at home one has much trouble with a wash. Surely that to have to do only with souls would be more agreable; however the brethren who have more of that sort of work are also troubled. Soon we shall rest from our labours may God greant that they all be done to his glory.

I was much grieved to hear that the wife of Luck* has turned out so bad I knew her well in Kalpany at least if it is the same, rather a pretty women, clever, much knowlege of the bibel, her husband was servant somewhere while she lived in the compound. she used to sit by me some time with her lace; she had a cunning way to make money through her work, What has become Ruth her husband was also Maity* some where she could talk piously. Is the old blind man still alive his wife Elisabeth was pretty nice they had I think an only son who turned out bad I think. Is <H>*anna of the poor house still alive if so please give her my love and to all those who remember me in armen house as well as to the other black and white in the compound. I almost envey Marie to see you all again that will be a joy May God be in your midst and be your joy himself. I am specially glad for Samuel who wants some refreshment May you all be refreshed and quickned by the presence of the Lord dearest Emma this seams to me the greatest atainment we have to pursew the presence of the Lord. such feeling of his nearness so that we feel with David his being at our right hand makes that we fall not. As the Son did nothing alone so have we to learn so to abide in him and in some measure be able to say after Paul I live not Christ lives in me. "Abide in me and you shall bear fruit" what words what a condition in order to bear fruits pleasing to the father by which his Name might be glorified. May we every one of us learn this great secret to abide in him. News from here will Marie give you I had a great joy at the marriage of Adolph God has given him a pearl who I hope shall be a blessing for the whole family. her Sister Caroline I like also very much. Gustav is much improved I had joy to see him with his bride. Our dear Mama is full of joy and thanks to the Lord Tante too is very nice. My hearty love to dear George I rejoice that God helps him so in his different interprises. May he have much joy and peace Adieu beloved
 yours J. Gundert
