<Mt. Clemens 20 April 65>* Calw 26th March 65

Dear Herrman and Christina

I thank for your letters, I should have ansewred it sooner; but come seldom to write which is no loss to you as you have better news from others than you could get from me.

I hope dear Christina is growing in the knowledge of the Lord, is not only a Martha in caring for her house and husband; but has joy to hear her Saviour speaking in her heart by his holy spirit ja dear daughter you can have no true happiness in this world with out having given your heart fully to the Lord, have you done it? have you a real delight to read his holy word? as soon as you feel that you are a poor sinner who cannot help herself who perhaps has tried over and over to love the Lord and has found that it is impossible, that evil and love of self of husband of a child is greater than the Love to the Lord; if you have found so and humble yourself before the Lord it is good, He will then enable you to pray and seeck pardon, then He will also give you joy and peace. only through the pardon of our sins can we recieve joy and peace but to get the pardon one must first have felt what is sin and be grieved that on account of our sins, of my sins, my saviour has had so much to suffer for me. when I can believe this truly then the Lord works in me a new heart I can then see people and things as they are, we are by nature blind and only with the spirit of the Lord can we really be enlightened. Do not think my dear Christine that I will make you a preaching no dear child; but I wish to hear whether you have found the Lord and if He is very precious to your soul yea much more precious than husband and child? Oh dear Christine this life is very short and we have to live as if to day was our last in this world. if my treasure is above that is if the Lord is my treasure I care not for this world. I live for my Saviour here and am ready daily to meet Him above. tell me in your next how you are, With a kiss to you to your little one I remain
 yours affectly
 J. Gundert
