II <30 Sept 65>*

Dearest Marie

Paul has told you that I had no time to write you being busy in ironning; but it is not just the case, it was all over before dinnar, I was obliged to be in the Seller having there people to mend it, fancy that the place where we put the bottles which you know well for our appels were in it, fell in ruin so that the 60 bottles of bier and wine which were in it were ready to be crashed, a few hours more would have sufficed to have all in pieces. I had just time to take all out with the fears yet it comes on my head. Now it is again in order. Your letters have given us much joy and I thank you heartily for them. Of course the one from Madras will be the most desired; for I am somewhat anxious about your landing there for it is just the monsoon there and to land is much more difficult in Madras than in Bombay; but we look to the Lord who has managed all what concerned you hither to so well that we will still hope for the future. I had a long letter from Marie Monnard full of deep feeling and sympathy the 6 pages are almost all filled with her admiration for such an "opfer" and prayers for you and us. I am to write her soon all about you. All the news Jettle gives you as well a Emilie who is really very tender and affectionate. My love to dear Charles I fancy to see you both sitting on the saufa by tantele and Samuel. May you have real joy together and abiding blessings the last letter of Samuel has given me much joy may the Lord keep him in that fine spirit and use him to his glory, love to him, to the dear Plebst to the black and white yours affect

Is it true that you are gone and no more to come? Ah it is but too true I feel it but I must be quiet

 Adieu Yours JG
