 Balingen 16 Sept 1865
My dear wife

Here I am after a night's journey. We had a quiet day on the 14th. That is to say at 10 o'clock in the morning the meeting of the brides where Sarasin Insp. Pfarrer Schieß Kolb and I did speak. In the afternoon (we had dined with Insp) I spent some hours talkg with him; Marie took farewell from the Ostertags, of course a very touching affair. Also aunt Rosine was there and wanted to see her Maidli once more. In the evening we sat and talked and prayed together. Marie slept better than she expected. On the 15th (5 o clock) we walked to the Terminus, took billets 3d class to Olten (because there were no more tickets to Geneva direct), sat for a moment together, then took our farewell. Marie kept good countenance all the while, then we lost sight of each other. I wanted to see Spittler, but mistook the hour and arrived at Kleinbasel when the train to Riehen went off, visited therefore the Buser's till the time for Schaffhausen was come (10 o'clock). There I saw a lady more like Marie than I ever met one the same face, somewhat older and with earrings, which led to strange musings. At Schaffh. (1.39) visited Mrs Spleiss and had a good talk of Sophie, Mrs Deggeller, Ammann's etc then professor Burkhardt, Antistes Kirchhofer. He was not at home but in his stead - Convert whom Marie need n't have looked for at Auvernier. The rest of the time with him and Mrs Spleiß. At 6 into the train for Singen. There sat or lay 2 hours near miserable company and made the rest of the way by diligence or Postomnibus. Arrived here before 9 in the morning; Julia heard me talking with Ernstle, got up and brought me Cacao into Ernst's study. She looks much better and both invite Paul earnestly. It is indeed fine autumn time for running about into the world. Plenty love to all. Marie will have continued her journey now (about 10) from Lyon, along the Rhone When I arrive at Calw she may be in the beginning of her seasickness.

I wrote to Paul Chandran about Philipp's death etc. the letter may reach Malabar before they come to Madras. I like Knobloch the brother who accompanies the party throughout, the 2 Chinese brethren leave at Point de Galle.

Mrs Eklin, Mrs Hoch etc send plenty love, also Mrs Spleiss tho' unknown and the dear people here. The remainder by way of mouth! I am somewhat tired from the night, and will take a walk to get rid of fatigue There is hope of Sam remaining at Cannanore. Insp had not yet read the Indian letters, as quite other things had to be settled first. Now farewell, with much love to all
 Your HG
