 Calw 15th Nov. 1865
 <Mt Clms 12 Dec 65.>*
My dear Herman and Christine

It is already a long time since I wrote to you. So you have been ill again I trust the Lord is drawing you to himself through these different trials; and the dear Christine when she sees you or her little one ill and fearing perhaps they may be taken away from her She looks to the Lord who does all these things with the view to set our affections on Him who is worthy of our all heart; for He has labourd for us loving us to death. Ja dear daughter give your heart fully to the Lord, in this maner only you can be truly happy, without fears and anxiety, what may come if you have a father in Heaven you know that He has given you an husband and a child; these are His own He gives them for a time and it may please Him to take them away. in such case if we know God is our father in Jesus we can be quiet, look to him and say my father thou remainest; I am thy beloved Child, remain so near me that I as it were feel thy presance continually A father can only do that which is good for his children. I have only to learn to believe. He has loved me so much as to take my sins upon Him and has crucified them in his flesh upon the cross; Can one believe such love and still be cold towards such a Saviour, love any thing more than him? I trust the Lord lets you still have your husband and child a long time but set your all mind upon the Lord in whom alone is peace and joy. All the news Jettle gives you. A hearty kiss to each of you three

 Yours affectiotly
 J. Gundert
