 <26 Oct>* [1865]
Dear Frederic

All your things have come right on tuesday evening, does the Strow Sack belong to Grandmama? you forgot that you should have put Davids wash in your own box there was quite room enough, I had told you that every four weeks you are to send your wash and the one of David in one box, the porto is much less if you do in that way. I thought you would send me your Juppe to be lined. if you could send it in the begining of the week that is before thursday I would like it, as I have some body to sew here on thrusday one might make the Juppe at once perhaps.

I rejoice to hear you are happy in your new home, and shall be glad to see you when you come meanwhile give my love and hearty thanks to your dear tante Anna. and to the whole house Apropos. let me pray you to be polite and affectionate to the two brothers Weiss Specially to the one who has fits, never let him feel or see that you laugh at him he feels very deeply that which is said of him and to show him love and confidence is the only way to cure him, When any one especially the servant girl is angry about him, try to show her that patience and much love is just what God requires from you all towards these poor young men. Do you also pray for them? I have often thought much of poor Albert and it is a great responsability for all those who live in the house to help him and pray for him, Make it dear Frederic a point of duty to be very kind to him, you do not know whether perhaps God may bless you for those dear young men. think always that you are to be salt and light and may God give you grace and wisdom to walk to his glory. To David I have already told all that which I write you about the brothers Now Adieu dear Son take for good these few words 
 Yours J. Gundert
