 Calw 4th December 1865
 <Mt Clemens 8 Jan 66>*
My dear Herman and Christina

Your letter received today has given more joy than any one till now from you, the time is coming I trust that you will let yourself be led by the Lord and depend upon him knowing that in you as in every man is but sin, evil, and unfitness to please God. I must become a poor Sinner before God, without this knowlege of my utter coruption I cannot depend upon God and humble myself before him.

Liebe Christine ich wünschte daß ich könnte Dir Deutsch schreiben; aber es ist mir schwer, so wird Dein lieber Mann diese paar zeilen Dir übersetzen. I am very sorry to hear that you have pains in one hand and have not been benefited by all the means you have tried, there is perhaps still one thing which you have not yet tried. The Lord gives to every one of us such sickness, weakness, pains, troubles, afflictions, trials, which He knows to be the best means, to bring us to himself, through these different trials we learn to pray and to seek God; have you already prayed that God would take away your sickness, not pray once or some time; but pray in earnest, The Lord loves us dearly He has given his life for us to redim us from the wroth of God from hell which we have justly deserved; but we think little of Him till he comes to us in earnest and says, my daughter, my son give me thy heart, if we refuse or remaind indifferent he uses all sorts of means to make us to hear his voice, and turn our hearts to him. Most people who have found the Lord, have learned to pray in troubels in some pains or other. You have read in the Revelation 7th chp about that great multitude who came out of the great tribulation, who have washed their robes made them white in the blood of the lamb, this my dear Christine we have to learn, to wash our souls in the blood which has been shed for us, as long as we are without trials or pains we learn this not and value little the Lord and his promises, therefore the dear Saviour who has loved us unto death and redimed us with such a high price calls us by different means, he knocks at the heart, he awake the conscience, shows what an awful thing is sin, he opens our eyes that we may see the vileness of sin and his fearful wages, then we say O I have not known, not understood, how blind have I been; now I will pray. So we learn gradually, how we are washed and clenced by the blood of Jesus the son of God our Saviour whom we did not value nor thanked when we have once found him and humbled ourselves before him as poor sinners, He gives us the spirit of adoption by which we then say, father, and feel confidence towards him, we dare then bring all our petitions before him great and small just like children do to their parents; but as long as we have not humbled ourselves in the knowlege of our sins, there is like a wall between God and us, and we dare not we cannot pray with a childlike confidence. Oui must be born again, be converted - no one is born a Christian he becomes one through faith in Jesus. Dear Christine read much God's word, in it we find light and life.

All what you say about the little one interests us much. Jettle gives you the news about Marie, Mrs. Scheffel has just returned from Stutgart where she has been some days, the Steinkopf give a very good witness to David. Frederic gives us joy too the Lord has his work in him. We look on the Lord for our dear Paul and wait. With much love to you all
 yours JG.
