 Calw 16th Nov 1865
 <Nr. 5>*
My dearest Marie

On the first of this month came the dear Mörike on their way to Stutgart, they were very nice quite submited, they hope in Stutgart to make good acquintance with the Riegers, both are pretty well, on the same day came the three children Lechelar that is Rosa who would not remember to have seen Mrs Mörike in Basl as teacher niether did she remember well Marie Gundert, her Sister Kety looks better than her she is the picture of her father, Henry a boy just out of school who does not seam to have learnd much. the Mother is in England, she has sent these over Germanyx they were in Monklingen where a brother of Lechler is Shuldheis James gives them much trouble the 2 girls were curiously dressed new gowns coarse dark stuff family imbrodered - fiting very bad; they are all going to India Rosa is to be the teacher of the yunger ones The young Mrs. Krauss Grosshaar baker died of nervous fever lost much blood through the nose repeatly. Mr. Renschler baker widoer is ingaged with the sister of the miller Brightling who has the mill behind Kaltborn. One has been longing much for rains and thank God it is poring down so that papa cannot take his walk and in consequance also no good sleep; but it will soon be better. Sophie Zimmer bride with Mr Kübel so the two sisters have the two brothers. Pfarrer Gross says that the bridegroom is far more than the one who maried Nanne, more learned more pious in fact a real big man. the happiness by the Aldbourg is very great! they send you much love Many peoöle ask after news from you one should print your letters to satify the friends. Mörike said indeed they should be printed. I did not know that so many people in Calw knew you or were so interested in you.

On the 8th Mr Dörtenbach went to his rest Emelie will tell you all about him. The Riegers were here for the burying, she war very nice and affectionate, her sickness has been evidently blessed to her soul. they loged with the Wirzes where we went for a while on the evening. Mrs Steiger is very poorly, she must keep the bed, so her four little ones spend the days with us in order to leave some rest to the poor mother, the girls are very nice but the boy is very selfish having been much indulged during his sickness. On the 7th was Anna Lamparder baptised. Marie visited us she is as ever lovely. On the 9th came a letter from Charles from Carachi. he intended to leave Bombay on the first Nov to fetch you I trust he has changed his mind and came on the 15th October: Jettle was rather glad at the idia you would then have time to see much of your brother and other friends. but I could not understand why not spent some time down the coast seing the stations. Anna Keiser is to remain the whole winter with the Federhalf. On the 12th came your letter fom Pon de Gale, many thanks for it, the one from Madas is longed for to hear how you landed. Mrs Lamparder has again a bad brest. Charl Shefel has a big boil under the left ear. Martha without feeling said it may become like the Lamparder who died; Charl does not look well. I must say Adieu, so many people write you that I better end my scrawling. Oh Marie may God so guide you that you may not have to reproach your self continually like your poor Mother. Oh Marie! A kiss to Charles and to you those I do spare I had many sad feelings during the days the little Steigers were here they came on my lap and wanted to kiss me, this day of old came faribly to my remembrance and what shall I say oh Marie Adieu
 yours J. Gundt

