 Sunday <1 Oct 65>*
Dear Frederic

Today we are alone because papa and Paul have gone to Herrenberg, I am glad for Paul who will I trust injoye it. the last letter from Marie will have given you joy bing unexpected. I hope we shall soon have one from Alexandria. In the begining I scarsly felt as if she had gone and left us for ever; but now I feel it and must remember that to do God's will is better than to injoye one an other. I long to hear that they have arrived safe in Madras, Have you a good time. I thought of you yesterday that perhaps you had gone to your new home. May you come there with the Lord and continue with Him receive every thing as from Him and thank him, also the love you may recieve from the dear people in the house. take it as given you from your Lord and be thankfull first to him and then to men.

I have visited the Wirzes whose son is growing very much a fine boy indeed. You have heard of course that Anna Wagner is the bride of Mr Federhaf the Apotheker they are to be married in May if not sooner. one says that she is very happy. I am sorry for her for one says that he is an unbeliever, she has light enough to know the truth. I wonder the parents have given her to that man; but monney is the great thing in this world even with many christians sad to say. I have not yet seen them I could not congratulate or gradulieren for such a match.

Now dear Son I want Meerrettich for papa but I do not like to trouble Mama or tante about them, however I cannot help and I will beg you to give to Mama 1 Fl 30 cr or 2 Fl to buy for me the Merrettich; but they must be fresh if one has not get the fresh one that is the new one I would rather wait till afterward. although the new ones should cost the double of the old I prefere I have here old ones but one cannot use them, so please be so good and tell that to gross Mama that I will have only of the new ones. Paul has made good acquentance with Miss Seeger who is very kind and affectionate to us, he goes in their garden and bring me dirlitze of which I am very fond. Did you know that we had beautiful grapes in our garden and good deal of them; but they have been stolen.

Now I must say Adieu If you are in your new home give my love to Unkel and Tante also to dear Tante Caroline and to her brothers, to hoche strase of course too

With love yours
 J. Gundert

by David's letter I see that you go to Olga strase next week so I keep your wash here till you be there. you get Paul's box, his is to small 
1I felt with you the disapointment about your future logis being delaid; but believe also that it is for the best, without seeing we must believe 
Give my love to dear Mama and tante and I thank for their nice letter. papa shall bring money for the redich, perhaps one can get some tomorrow as it is Mark but only new ones

You and David shall send me every four weeks your wash in one box and after 8 weeks I shall return you the two boxes together, I wish in future to have small wash. so one box for both in 4 weeks will suffice, Why did you not send me your two sheets? surely both were dirty enough.
