III 13th October [1865]

Dearest Marie

On the 11th came your long expected letter from Suez It came one days after the one of Samuel, so you may imagine that we were somewat anxious. 
Now God be praised for his fatherly cares over you these days specially we think of you and follow you up the coast. to day papa sayd you are likely au point de galle from where you may meet rough weather and perhaps storms, may you land at Madras happily safely as well as we did 29 years ago! We are of course very anxious till we hear you have reached Madras. 
On the 10th Paul left us a little <day>* before your letter came it was of course sent to him immediatly; for he longed to hear from you, he went to the post often after a post had arrived to inquire whether a letter from you was there. He was very amiable, but will nothing of God

In five days will be your birthday May the Lord fill you with his grace or rather make you to take from his fulness grace for grace every moment fresh again. Samuel will be with you on that day and perhaps already in Calicut or on the way to it I hope dear Charles will have had no obstakels to hinder his coming to Mangalore, although we saw by the papers the inundation and destruction in Heidrabad, we long of course to hear from Charles, it will be good for him to be away for a while from the place which may be unhealthy for some times. If I would keep my words and go to Marie Finkh when I have heimwhe it would be too often or should remain there, Till lately it was to me as if you would come back; but now it helps no more it is but too true you have gone Oh Marie I must be silent and look where we shall meet to part no more, I have visited Mrs. Wöhrle several times she is as ever very nice and affectionate.

Mina Kern was with 4 days she returned to Stutgart on Wednesday with Jettle who had heard that her aunt Siskin was as usual troubled with many cares, she is to return soon so that she may still write to you. Emilie Seger is in Stutg. she has sent to Paul a fotograf of Calw, it pleased him very well she was most kind to him and he to her. Mr and Mrs Dürtenbach are both ill, he has an iruption on his face both eyes are enflamed, one he cannot open, the Dr says it may last some month before he be well. she may soon be better. You have heard that Anna Wagner is bride with Apotheker Federhalf in May they are to marry, on both side much joy. I wonder at the Wagners as one says he is an unbeliever. Martha W. is to return this week. The professor Riehm with his wife came to take farewell <(fr Wildberg to Murrhardt)>*, inquired much after you and send you much love. Paul Mohl was with us for some days, he is nice somewhat troubled by the Darbists and Baptists; but I think to have been with papa has made him quiet Frau Heller des Messner's Fr wife has died very happy in the Lord after three days of illness.

Near Zafelstein has the "Halsbraeune" sickness which took away a great number of children from Aldboorg been brought by a young man so that the people are much troubled, most of the children who are attacked of that dreadful deasiese die; not only children; but even a young man 22 years of age has died of it, the Pfarer Gross are thinking to send away their children for a while, that sickness is so terrible that no one comes in the house where it is on account of the smell and the pains are very great. 
The Shaubers and Shitz are asking anxiously after you, many other people too.

In calw you would see many people with some pieces of yours, gowns shoes, peticoats mantel etc. To Annele I gave some books of yours which pleased her well, also Bertha Schram Pauline Steiger makes her sunday with the gown of poil de chever from Corcelles, the little boy of Mrs Esig looks very proud in a prettily made up little gown out of your old green one 
To day is a month you left us! Martha W comes to day. Since 8 days we have already fire it is cold one wishes rain, on monday it rained but very little We had no letter from Charles and we are anxious to hear how it stands in Heidrabad Frederic is still with tante Emma. Anna paid a visit to Baligen with Emilie Geier, since their return Anna is or goes every day to Eslingen where the child of her sister Fisterer is very ill.

15th we just return from Stamheim where papa has preached you are near Madras. may you with the Lord come on that land and filled with his love gain many souls

a tender and hearty kiss to you and Charles
 yours J.G.
