 Calw 26 May 75
My dear wife

This morning Joh went off to meet at Kornthal with Burkhardt who is to accompany him. Tomorrow morning Jenny will be off to Heidelbg. 
David sends a letter from Mrs Foulis (that is part of it) and writes from Young's house where he will stay till the 31st. You cannot read it, he writes so funnily, all mixed together, about books etc. The Asante book costs 6 shillings. He came by night in 11 hours to Edinburgh, was at once asked by Yg why no coffer? He had left it at the station. Yg has a cold and some eruption in the face, cannot go out just now when they have the assembly. Mrs Yg or Miss Orr walked about with D. He admires them as Christian workers, they run up very smartly and are well known by every body. D liked the Assembly and the interest taken in their Free Church affairs; Moody is much prayed for.

He had also been at Oxford and seen the students' life there. Smith had visited that place again. They all ask after you.

Haug has been here, the minister from Dachtel. Bessie has gone with Mary and Jennie to the Hof Dicke, where horses were to be seen.

27 May. This morning Jenny has gone off with Miss von Stackelbg, 3d class and direct to Heidlbg where they will arrive 12,5. just as we did. Before this I got your letter and wondered that I told you stories which Jette had got from you (without my knowledge). She hears of different girls and will tell you her concerns sooner or later. Don't trouble yourself about it, the matter will surely come right and we have waited long enough. 
I have now commenced sour milk in the evening instead of wine, I grew jealous of Louise's tumbler filled with the white stuff. We saw little more of Jennie but she has been very warmhearted to the last and felt every little kindness as if it was a big obligation. If only we felt the big obligations the Lord lays us under, as little kindnesses, what a mass of benefits we could reckon up that we have received! One day we shall learn to thank as we ought; I consider also this visit of Jennie as a real gain, since it rivets together the 2 families much more closely and there is less fear of little misunderstandings on account of the distance that separates us. Plenty love to Uranie and spare your hand better!
 Your HG.
