<(ad No. 103.)>* <Calw>* 22 Aug 75
 <erh. 9. Sept>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Several times in hearing read your letters I felt so joyful that I thought at once to mention you that which had just struck me; but I have so very short memory that a moment afterward I know nothing more, however I know what I want to know that is, Jesus is your life He is encreasing in you while self decreases; May He in every thing have the victory, so that we may experience with Paul that we can do all things with our Lord, if we abide in Him surely we shall not become short of any blessing nor strength which the apostles had, the secret is only in abiding in Him. willing to part with our own sin or ...1

It grieves me much to hear about many who were at first for Smith and now gradually give way to the ruling spirit, and vendure even to find fault with Smith; several who at the time got blessing through him are now gained over and judging. It is a sad mark of the christianity of our Ministers and pious peopel even stundy* meeting peopel, judging and talking without fear of God, without a feeling of love, not only injuring their own soul; but hindering preventing others who might have profited by the teaching God had sent us. If sin and lusts of the flesh were not attacked strongly by Smith speaches one would have less to say against him, those who are willing to give up all those things which they know to be disaproved of God can but say Smith has been sent us from God and we should take heed. 
All the news about Marie and her fat girl you have heard of course, sleeping and drinking is her work at present, Theodor is in Stutgart and Carl with us till the Mama can get up, Johannes is very seldom well. Stomach in desorder or headach,

Now I can tell you what has been bought with the money you gave me You remember the small glass Almira in which were the indian figures, it belonged to Emelie Seeger and since long time I wanted to return it. So at last we had a nice one much larger than hers made, which we call Herman and Tinis Almira it is very nice and contains a good deal, when David sow it this moring for the first time and heard that it was a present from you he was quite touched, he admired it; but specially glad one had returned the first one. My dear Tine with her dear girls will be glad to hear of it and I hope that you shall one day use it, if I should not witness it myself I believe it you shall use it

Grandmama is with us for some weeks, she is well however her strength is abating. I trust the benefit of the bath will prove lasting for dearest Tine. With a tender kiss to you four
 Yours affectly J G.
