 Calw 30 May 75
Dear Julia

Glad of your good news. You will like the warmer weather.

Yesterday Mrs Burckhdt from Emberg came to see us, very much downhearted. But her case draws towards a decision. The husband gives large sums of money away, so she had to speak with the Oberamtmann, who advises to send him again for some weeks to an asylum and within this time declare him unable to carry on business. She prefers to wait yet a little while. 
Soon afterwds a letter from Mrs Thomas came 1st May. He is dangerously ill and the malady of the family threatens to visit him. The Dr's send him to sea, so the household in India may be broken up any time. She does not want any more letters from B. After supper I read to her the chief parts of the letter. She shed tears but did not speak a word. I felt that my invitations to repent and believe were not accepted, but we must wait. Of course I did not spare her, wished that she begin now to undo her work, and if she would now come to the light, God can use that also to pour new hope into the father's mind whereever he may be. But she would not betray any feeling by words whatever may have stirred in her heart.

We think of having Rams. here on the 14th It appears to me that you might leave on Sunday 13th evening (8.20 at Brötzingen 9 o'clock, get out there rather than at Pforzheim as there is less to walk and less noise, and proceed 9.21 by the train from Pforzheim to Calw. You arrive then 10.12. And we from Altensteig and Nagold would be there about the same time, a little before, and might receive you at the station)

Mar. was at Church, I also. Decan hinted that the rich man did not take the trouble of getting married, otherwise he would have sent Lazarus to his wife or children, instead of to his brothers.

Today the youths meet from Liebelsberg etc I have asked Stolz to go there for the beginning as I do not like to give up Hirsau seeing I have to be away for the 2 next Sundays.

Fred you see was enchanted with reading my name in the paper. Strange, when I saw it, after Jacobine and Rösle had gone, my first feeling was, that is now something for Freddy! Jettle will speak about the other matters, so I leave them to her and remain with best love to dear Uranie
 Your HG
