 Wildbad 29th May <75>*
Dear papa

Thanks for yours of 26 It is nice that John has company it is a comfort for Marie. I thank her heartily for her kind letter, that which she relates of Carl has pleased me much, perhaps Theodor may learn from him to do his tasks for school more diligently. I do not write her separatly she takes it for good from me and think that I am agoist enough to like to hear from her without getting any thing from me direct. In my thoughts I am with you all but specially with John who I hope may return in our midst with many blessing to impart to us too. I read with delight the book which he has lent me. I had sometime tasted the hapiness of such rest in God as therin described; but only momentary; the way of obedience or consecration is to be better understood and learnt. I feel the Lord will do it and grant me that perfect rest and peace in Him no more per time; but increasing; The discours or speaches of Pearsall Smith in that book please me more than of any one else the quietness, the soundness* in refering continually to the word, to Christ commend himself. The letter of Mrs. Faulis I do not understand well. I hope that David has a good share to all the blessings poured in Ingland 
I hope the white stuff which you share with your companions at tabel the evening may proove good for your health, however it has become so cool that one may wish some wine instead of milk.

Yes you are right, if we could feel the big obligations the Lords lays us under, as little kindness, what a mass of benefits, we could rekon up that we have recieved, Yes it was good to have Jenny to become more united in the families

A Mme. Breitling came yesterday to see Uranie they are from la Chaudfond alld accointances of Frederic, they come every year partly for pleasure sake. I met two ladies from Ludwigsburg they live in Verners Asile as we were speaking of Smith they said with reserve Prelate Kapf said the doctrine is wanting about buse or repentance! Big man must find faulte in some way or other, it is to take a great resposability on one self to hinder souls to hear that which might just help them.

Many thanks and love to dear Jettle for her kind note. I have not seen Miss Fecht, nor any accointance, I thought after Miss Julia Zahn from Hirsau; but she had already gone, If I can find out or you where lives Mrs Zimmerman from Heidelberg I shall visit her, Wishing you a good sunday and blessings in your meetings. with love to all Miss Thomas, Dorch all  Yours affectly
 J Gundert

Many thanks for your kind letter just recieved as I was on my way to put this in the box I am not uneasy nor troubeld about about about any thing, I understand your telling me formerly all will become right wait on the Lord Yes I am happy and quiet in the Lord and I thank you.
