 Calw 20 Ja <75>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for your of the 18th recieved this morning at 10. The telegram sent off this morning you will have got by this time so that you have time to go to Cannes Jettle is full of joy imagining that now you can rest and injoy some good days. I hope it is the case and wish you many blessings in the communion of the children of God whom you meet with. The Telegram of Miss Thomas came after 9 as we were going to bed It is so warm here that one can expect a storm with thunders as they had in Heidelberg and some places near Stutgart where they had hail, Mrs. Grill and others are delighted to hear that you can injoy some quiet days in Genoa or Cannes You shall perhaps see Mr Shirts, we liked him very much at the Verein the ladies were all pleased to hear him, Mrs. Schüz is not yet well; she feels very weak, Mrs. Shauber speaks rather anxiously about her state of weakness, From Mrs Burkart I heard nothing, I asked Roller from Altburg who knows the family pretty well, he will try to see them,

Carl shall sleep again with Theodor as Mama has heimweh after him, I am glad of it as he is rather restless at night and coughs. in day time he remains here. One has had a good deal of troubel about a servant girl for them, as Elisabeth is ill and can really not do for them, they have now Marie Satler from Stamheim; but only for a short time so that one must seek again. Marie is pretty well getting up some time in the day. Bardt Catherine is not well, one has sent for the Doctor, The two last days we had wash and we shall iron the one of Marie and ours than perhaps we shall get some rest As Jettle and Johanes give you all the news of course I attempt not to do it Shirts said that Margeritt Wards was in a poor house in Carachi where she has got a loging and 5 rps per month'her boy is a weakly child, probably for getting to much food, I am glad that you were pleased at Rolle with the outward and inward.

May the Lord give you joy and peace and bring you bac safe with the young lady
 With love yours J.G.
