 Genoa 20 Jan 75
My dear wife

This morning I was already considering whether I ought not to search the passengers lists at the next Hotel (Hotel Feder where the English stop) to see who passed about the 10th when your telegram came to relieve me. Now I am so much more at my ease. Went of course to Jorand and told him, and he partook of my joy. I was with him yesterday evening for a meeting with the Italian Protestants and had even to speak Italian. They sat with him around the table, men and women (the carpet being covered with a cloth on acct of the inveterate habit of spitting on the floor) sang, prayed, read the bible and talked over it. But there was more of rhetoric and passionate action to be enjoyed here in 2 hours, than we at Calw could produce within 2 years. I wished for a little more heart in the remarks made, also for more directions on the part of Jorand; but he finds it his duty to set them at their ease and be more of the kindly lookeron than the master leader; towards the end wine and cake was brought, and we even knocked the glasses together to bring a "salute" to the nuovo fratello. 2 accompanied me home at 11 o'clock (for here the hours are late)

I visited today again Mr Schultze, the minister and found him very friendly, much occupied with schooling (a Jenny Jorand sits also under his instruction) He came to me to take a walk together when the university and library were visited. But the Indian Mspts are locked up and cannot even be seen from a distance. Sch. seems a nice man, and does also something for the yg men every Wednesday.

Yesterday I for once sat at the table d'hote, without uttering a word. At my right a married pair of frenchmen, at the left 3 young french travellers who sufficed to themselves. In general I shall no more go to it, but prefer dining with Jorand who invited me very kindly. - Mrs Jorand is half Scotch (father a Corse) and talks good English, one daughter has been brought up at Königsfeld and should also talk German with the ygr sisters but doesnt. Marie Monnard had already described her beauty, I mean the mother's, and how she looks only the elder sister of the young beauty. This testimony is true, though it sounded somewhat strange from Marie's lips. She also had told me how Mlle Ruynat was once engaged to a Colonel La Harpe, who then changed his mind. Since then she has had many offers (I think 8 in one week) but had once for all done with marriage. Dear Marie! I like my Rolle stay particularly, because I had a feeling that this circle is narrowing sensibly. They complained about the absence of a leading brother. - Here Jorand is strong against brethrenism, it has hurt the Protestant cause deeply, and hurts it still by continual subdivisions. Mazzarella seems to be the head of these "free Italians".

This is not my last letter I suppose, nor have you written the last, if I judge aright. I am to preach for Schultze next Sunday, he having service at a village in the neighbourhood (Pegli) So there is also here some little work. It is Wednesday now, and in 7 days I may reach Calw 4.22. from Horb with the slow coach. I still am undecided whether I am to try with her 3d class that last bit of the way. I reckon first class till Geneva, 2d to Horb, sleeping at Basle Tuesday evening.

That will do for the present. Love to the children all. I wrote to day to Thomas and Sam and shall write again in a week from Calw, D.V. I trust Marie is better and Shirt's visit has helped to refresh her. Joh I am sure is today with the young men, and may Carl enjoy his grandfather's bed without any troubles! I see here many priests, monks, nuns - most common faces generally; a real horror through an inquisitorial face is yet to come. Leben und leben lassen seems to be the motto, and money mak[in]g the chief end, people are much more busy here than I had supposed. Goodbye! With old love  Your HG.

I have also seen the German Consul Leupold, a Silesian (no relation of the Miss[ionar]y). As far as Genoa I have not spent quite 100 Fcs 1E. Molo
Spedizioni, Agenzia di vapori noleggi, Assicurazioni e spedizioni di emigranti, Genova

 Genua den 4 Januar 1875.

Herr Dr. H. Gundert in Calw /Württemberg

Von der tit. Missions Verwaltung in Basel beauftragt, theile ich Ihnen nun mit, daß es hier nur eine Dampfer-Gesellschaft welche den Hafen Malta's erreicht und das ohne Verbindung mit der Peninsular-Company. 
Die Ankunft von Malta her geschieht jeden Sonntag, so wenn die englische Dame am 20. in Malta ankommen würde, sollte sie am 24. hier sein. 
Das ist Alles was ich davon vernehmen konnte und hoffe daß es Ihnen dienlich sein wird.

Mit Achtung und Ergebenheit
 PP Evaristo Molo
 M. Caleagri*
