 Calw 5 Jun 75
My dear wife

Yours arrived this morning, after I had in the evening heard from Yg, which I enclose. Do you know that Praetorius and wife are in the Badhotel. See them also and hear about Gustav! General Werder lives by Rosenthal, him also you should see (not visit however) then you can say you know a famous man! of that lady we heard from Miss Seeger. I hope Uranie will be able to go on with her bathing and find the benefit afterwards. - B. is glad of your coming back, she finds the rooms empty without you and I think it seriously spoken. She gave yesterday her first lesson to Miss Müller. Of the Magdstories I hear little or nothing. Hannesle was quite pleased to dine here and have a talk with me.

Carl saw yesterday a flock of sheep driven over the marketplace. When Theodore cried: Oh how many, surely more than 200, Carl said in his quaint way: How can that be, seeing the Lord Jesus had only one hundred sheep to keep! 
John sent the papers of Brighton with a long account of the conferences. He has his own room, Burkhdt in the same house. - From Hermann a nice letter, he had heard of the shipwreck of the Schiller and remembered their passing those islands. Acquaintances from Detroit are among the drowned. In the letter lost he related of the peculiar people who on the 19 April had expected the coming of the Lord and gone out to meet him. He has begun to send me something for my papers, as soon as he heard of the Schusshexe. In the night when the vessel was lost, a girl in Detroit sprang up from a dream and cried to the father: "I have heard Mama weeping on board ship, in agony, they are in a fearful fix." That Mrs Beyer is also drowned. Many of the passengers were tipsy.

B. Louise Jettle all greet most heartily. Marie was also here and sends love. Marie Heerm left yesterday morning for Hdlbg and will now be Traegerle. We all hope your last week at W. will do you good. I am glad to see again Grandmama Mglg Steudel Oehler's. Good bye! with much love to you both  Yours HGdt
