 Calw 1 Juni 75
My dear wife

Received yours this morning. I have now talked with B. Yesterday afternoon Mrs Schauber invited her for a trip to Teinach in her own carriage. Before going she asked me for money and I gave her a little. Today I read to her the 2 last letters of her father to let her see his state of mind (you know them), put before her that the strain on his forbearance had been too great, as he always expected her to run away with the 30 œ, and gave her 2 days to come to a resolution. No words will tell on the parents, but only a deed. If she gives up the money, they may for the present be brought to some quietness of mind, the first requisite for her father's health and preservation. If she does not, it will be apparent to them that she does not care. She answered nothing, but heard me quietly. I told her, God was also cunning and I wish that he may not circumvent her. She smiled. Now in 2 days I shall know how that works. Let us pray earnestly for her that at this last hour she may come to a resolve that may be fruitful for all eternity. We can do nothing more as far as I see.

Ricke has been to the marriage and returned yesterday evening (10 1/2). She will soon hear what Jettle is doing. Christine cooked for us yesterday and Hannesle spaltete Holz. At dinner he amused us much with repeating a sermon of Barth at Stammheim quite correctly in High German. Louise nearly burst from laughter as it came gradually out like a treasure long kept in a box. 
Marie and the 2 Stolz were with us in the evening. We sang a good deal chiefly English. B. was glad of her trip. Charles is much more steady in his learning than Th. They bathe already. Elise is expected at Stuttg next Monday or so. Plebst had not been well - after perspiring - and therefore ran at once home. Gustav is not yet quite well, it may be a long story as with me. Now farewell to you both
 Yours HG.
