 <11 April 75.>*
Dear Children <Fried.>*

Thanks for your last which gave us much joy. I thik that Mama Heerman and Marie would make no mistake in beholding the three children you could put before them; for the fame and virtuos of Julia with her look and behaviour has been so fully discribed by papa that she would at once be discovered. 
Stolz has been here lately about his loging, the more I see him the more I think that he has not his name in vain, he said that they were coming on the 22d and their furniture on the 23d; but perhaps on that day they shall not be abel to be in their house, I then said we shall perhaps not be abel to loge you all; as I thought his mother was coming along, he than pointed out the Seegers house, "there may be room there said he." As if all the peopel should be too glad to have them, he never said can you have us, I then went with him to the Kaplers who have taken much troubel to get for them some small bedstad for the 4 Children, I had related to him how kindly they had run about to inquire after these bedsteads that they may have them during the time they are in Calw; for they have none of their own Do you think he would have thanked. I did it before him trying to make him feel it was his duty to do it. It is good if you are a little narrow in your house that he may not think of putting some one with you. I fear we shall have fines days with Rike when they are here; for she cannot bear him. 
Well it is not easy to love all the children of God and the exercise in this point might cost many fight. Only the faith and accute feeling of the love of Him who is never tired or weary of us can inabel us to endure, bear and love.

Adieu my dear Children with a kiss to you three Yours
 affetly JG.

These last days John has been very poorly, he thinks that was never so ill as yet; but he does not remember well
