<(Vor 116 und 117)>* <Calw 6. Dec. 75>*
 <erh. 24 Dec Morgs>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Last week we had again no letter perhaps it has been lost like the first as perhaps some of ours to you. I suppose your dear daughters are making preparation for Christmas, were dear Tine here we would make goodle; but being alone with a girl one has to spare the health I make rather nothing. those who can eat goodle shall find enough with Marie and Emma who like that sort of work. I dare say Marie and Julia are working in secret to perform some useful work for papa and Mama Grandpapa goes every day to his two granddaughters and Julia makes balls of snow to throw them to him her opapa is the first in her estimation, it is true that he devotes himself to her, she is rather cunning and of a strong will.

David is with us today, but he let nothing out about the future, I told him in Christmas we shall perhaps know something of his plans; but he said cooly no not before new year. Frederic has in one of his wrists an eruption like dear Tine on her hand it troubels him, he had some in India in a leg, it had disapeard and now it is in an Arm; he is well and staut beside. Of the misery of the poor Isenbergs papa tells you of course. You know that Frederic arrived safe in America with his wife found son and wife very happy she converted and Louis on the good way that is repenting, his health not good I do hope that they are happy together so that the hearts of father and son are reconsiled and united in the Lord Emma Louis's wife is a nice woman it seems

With a tender kiss and best wishes to you four
 yours affectly
 JG.
