 Genoa 22 Jan 75
My dear wife etc

Just now I receive your combined accounts of what you are doing, it only shows what a misery it is when the grandfather is away from home, for wouldnt all have come right if I had been there, the wash, the servant troubles etc. I ask? Meanwhile I enjoy the absence of all these burning questions and behave like a gentleman at rest. They must all think here I am made of gold, since I do not despatch any business and show day after day the same gelangweilte face. - But it is not so bad as that. Yesterday I did not write as I had not much to tell. I had dined on the 20th with dear Jorand (this is now a standing institution) let me now tell something about them. The wife talks English with me, and beautifully (with slight mistakes) so does also Mary, her eldest girl, similar to the mother, with the addition of the eagle's nose of the father, she also plays beautifully on the piano and has a heart for christ's cause, serves gladly etc. The 2d Emily talks German, is perhaps also clever, but not very happy to serve others, won't talk German with the little ones, though the parents wish it (and does not go into my Miss[ionar]y meeting, clearly a very momentous matter!) I can't make her out, but they have trouble with her no doubt. Follows Jenny, a dear creature, whom I saw at school, and Giuletta, who had been sick and looks delicate, very friendly and openhearted. Altogether fine people who exert themselves for others. An instance! At the table sits also Signore Tellino an Evangelist who had a bad fall, when J. brought the bruised fellow to his house and kept him till he was well. And then? Then he liked the fine house and the good dinner, does nothing for his children (I wonder who cares for them) and hangs on praying beautifully, reading the word and explaining etc in short edifying the whole house, but (as Mrs J. shrewdly remarked) never thinking of depriving them of his presence. I sh[oul]d also once like to become an Italian Evangelist when I am no more fit for gaining my bread elsewhere, here at least it is buttered, I can assure you. So then after that dinner we go to Mr Prochet, the Waldensian minister. he has invited company and we mount the 5 or six stories in the backpart of the temple to reach his rooms. 5 or 6 children of his run about, one sits together in a small salon, chair close to chair, and talks. An American Shaw, excessively nervous and silent, a young Geymonat, Tronc (Vicaire of Prochet), Mr* Formez (Danish wife) and many others sit there, one drinks coffee or tea (without milk, strong like in Egypt) eats Gutle, and then plays are played. f.i. your neighbour on the right tells you a word (Bismarck), he on the left puts another word in your other ear (castoroil) now you are to discover a similanza (both are purganza, a purgative) and a dissimilanza (the one belongs to the animal kingdom, the other to the vegetables) Or: a watch and an orange both are cylindrical, but the one you put in to your pocket and the other into the mouth. Capiste, Signora? Well after 11 o cl. I took French leave, by gradually receding to the door, and was then sought thro' the whole house, J's left only at 12. The 21rst looked a little dreary, hence a note from Schulz informed me that he w[oul]d go to Pegli alone. It cleared so much that abt 1* o'clock I went to him, but he was already gone. I prepared for the evening, was visited by J. ate with him and walked with him Mrs and Mary to the temple where I had to relate about the Mission - I English which Pr. made Italian. It seems they were pleased with the little I brought together for their service. As people sit here long together I didn't come away but sat again with the dear J's till near 11, when the good Papa accompanied me again down to the strand, and Tellini came also along uninvited to edify us on the way. Mrs J. remarked many similarities between Indian and Italian habits. This 22d I looked for Schulz who was absent (giving and receiving lessons) visited the Waldensian school (an energetic Wald. teacher = Miss who learns also English, teaches French and Italian, she is from Mantova) saw Prochet and visited the Scotch Free Church minister Miller, who also wants me for Sunday evening to tell his people something about Missions. So I have the forenoon with the Germans, the evening with the Presbyterians, I hope also to hear Miller preach. But to listen to Italian preaching is really a pleasure. - The German Consul Leupold was formerly married to Bröckelmann's sister, now he has a worldly wife it seems. I wrote a letter to Miss Th. for her arrival, and on Saturd I shall look out for good Mr Shirt. Goodbye. Best love to the children all, esplly John who has written to me. My hotel is just opposite the English hotel1
