 Genoa 24 Jan 75
My dear wife

Yesterday I was awaiting Shirt's arrival a little after noon, expecting he would go to the great hotel. But after staying there a long time before the hoteldoor there passes behind me a young clergyman and I call him Shirt. He acknowledges the call and behold! he had passed already some hours at the same hotel. Why did you not send him here instead of to Molo? He had been informed at Basle that our people generally stay here, so he did the same. He talked with the upper classes of the Missionhouse about Mission, passed then a night at Geneva and proceeded from there in a cold night to Turin and Genoa. We could not talk much at first, because Schulz came, with whom we had to go to Rubattino (for the passage to India). Alas! the baggage from Engld had not arrived, hence Sch had to show the way to a cloth magaz for buying something and a hat was also bought so cheaply that I was induced to purchase something similar, lest German and Scotch hearers of my sermons be shocked at my appearance Then at last we were somewhat together and I was mightily pleased with him. But of this hereafter. He could not give up the table dhote and was then inclined to make up what had been wanting in his last sleep. I passed one evening more with the dear Jorands, and met there the Jewish Miss[ionar]y d'Allorto. A nice Italian student, clever for languages but who had been affected in his head during a sojourn in Engld. Even now he is forbidden to study much and recommended to take long walks. He related a little of the Ebrei in Genoa who seem to be as elsewhere much addicted to making money. The good people on the hill were as nice as ever but I felt somewhat put out by J. telling me, that the vessel Carriddi (or Charybdis) or Scylla was expected to land Sunday evening about 6. Now I had promised the Scotch Miller to relate to his congregation something about Missions just about the same time, and things were coming to a thick close.

However to end: 24th breakfasted with dear Shirt, then Schulz came and accompanied me to the temple. He had the prayers, I the preaching on Matth XI, close. Then I heard some of the Italian sermon and Scotch singing, mounted a carriage with Schulz and d'Allorto, to go to Pegli. There came about 7 Germans to hear Sch's sermon, after which we refreshed ourselves and drove back in all haste wet with rain. I did not find Shirt any more in the hotel, but at the place of embarkation in company with a frenchman that goes to Bombay. I spoke yet a few words and cried a Salam after him. Now the steamer may land but I will drive the thought from me, speak to the Scotch congregation about Asante and then hear from Jor. who offered to be in the harbour for me, how things came off. May the Lord grant a nice close to this Sunday! and Wednesday 4 o'cl. a happy meeting (via Horb)  Goodbye Yours HG
