<ad No. 92>* Calw 20th </21>* June 75
 <erh. 9. July>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

Many thanks for your kind note, by this time you have heard that papa is thank God better, quite well not yet; but it comes gradually. I am so glad you were abel to help him with writings, such exercises are also good for you. I shall no more write <(Mamas Ep v. 7. März 75)>* about coming to us; but leave it to God, meanwhile help papa in what you can. And may the Lord make you a blessing for the congregation and others, giving you also courage; that He is abel to use you for His purposes. In us it is of course nothing to be expected; but we learn gradually to say and do I can all things through Christ who strengthens me, His life and strength is communicated to us so that it becomes true He workes the will and do, if only we do not hinder Him. I think that you would have liked Smith if you had heard him; God has used him to do much good. for the revival of believers of course many are against him; but an honest and true heart without jalousy can but rejoice and profit to hear or read what has passed in the meetings; Of course if the spirit of the Lord is not along working in us it remains unprofitabel, and God can work all these teaching and blessings in us without Smith or any mean. As for me I have not heard him; but God has given me my share of blessing so that I felt there were great powers spread abroad, such as I had felt in smaller degree by reading Steinhofer, who after the Bibel is my only book

Your letter came to find me in Vildbad where we have been three weeks with Uranie I think that it has done us good, though I felt very tired during the time we were there. Frederic Dubois is in Schönbrunen in Zug where he is to remain 6 weeks cold bath, Douch etc, he complains much to be very nervous, the Dr says also that his liver is ill which is the cause of the bad dijection. The wife of Louis his son seems to have been converted some month ago, so that one hopes it will work on her husband who is still doing nothing whatever.

That we are all glad to have Frede with family is without doubt; his little Julia is a fat strong child, fine, in all sense. John came back from England refreshed in spirit and nice; but bodily not stronger. Marie seems to have profited by hearing Smith. David is to come from Engl on the 4th of July not to be long with us; but to go to Stutgart. Papa and John are going to Bale on the 26th. I hope and pray that God will bless the bath for the hands of dear Tine, during her absence your two dear daughters will keep house and care well for their papa. With much love to every one of you and kisses to you four I remain
 yours affectly JG.

much love from Uranie and Jettle
