 (Calw) Genova 18 Jan 75
My dear wife

Here I am, rather tired, but in good health. I wrote from Neuch and Rolle 2 cards as well as I could in a hurry. At Basle the chief news was that Wurm has also said he wd go, and he stated simply he did not intend to die in this work and he felt he was growing older. Reiff will have heard this after his arrival which happened the same evening after I had come. In the morning (misty and sightless) to Neuch. R expected me with half shorn beard, done for the English visit. I finished my work hastily with him in the afternoon and I wrote how Ur. came with lantern and Timothy We walked slowly together home, with her old girl she is not mightily pleased, was surprised to hear of the grand marriage from papers (through me alone) and wondered that the enmity agst the indepdt Church shd be so strong. Also R and Gret say this is the case and that Nagel does many things unadvisedly which hinders of course the common prayers for which Nationals and others were united in Jan[uar]y. Much talk abt Pearsall Smith and the movement occasioned by him. - Very nice it was at Rolle. Marie came and Mr Jorand to meet me, we talked of you all and also about their stories and joys and griefs. Miss Jorand is up and walks out, but her eyes get weaker considerably, she remarked to me that MM was getting rather deaf. Certainly Miss J seems the stronger spirit, but both are equally tender and fine in faith and love. Then Mrs J. (a Vaudoise) was glad to hear also about our Waldenser, and Mlle Ruynat was not content to invite us to herself for the evening, but came first over to see me. She is a great contrast to Mrs Süskind, so strong, thinking of all and ruling with such selfpossession. She said once, that the image she had of me was exactly like what she now found. I ate there chestnuts with cream for the first time and remembered Jett's description of the former, they were excellent. The young Russian "Bode" imbecille since a fall in his youth, but something of a singer, was with her, but not in an amiable mood. Another Miss Jorand was with him and seems to take special care of him, for which they are well remunerated. We were happy together. I slept then with Mr Jorand and was also after breakfast by him accompanied to the railway. It rained. So it did in Geneva where I committed a foolish thing, running about - I tried for a church, but came too late - and got wet feet (viz shoes). Then by rail into Savoy under a continual pouring which of course as we ascended changed into snow and there we stuck at last fast. The engines worked like poor hunted animals but it was no go, therefore they cut the train in two and promoted them one after the other. I had intended to finish the wine bottle in the great tunnel but had to do it before on french ground still. From Modane off about 1 o'clock in the morning, I slept then a little, after I had counted the lanterns in the tunnel (20 I think on one side and the same number on the other. I got through any how and awoke at last at Turin. From there to Genoa soon after noon. Visited Mr Jorand who invited me this evening. I have of course made some inquiries about an arrival of today, but none as yet about one on the tenth, which I shall still do before I go up to Jorand to eat soup with him and have a prayermeeting with some Italien Christians. Before I go I shall once more ask at the opposite hotel where all the English frequent. Mr J. himself went with me to Mr. Molo where I heard nothing of importance, so I do not yet know whether I have to wait for next Sunday or may go before. This night I was in winter, here I write with open windows and feel no cold, before me the harbour with the ships. I have no care, but believe it will be right in whatever way it turns out. Love to all.
 Yours HGdt

I shall soon write again.
