 Wildbad 6 Juin 75
My dearest Jettle

Apropos what is doing your arm have you still pain? It would be good for you to come here too, How much cost the cheris with you? Well I wander which person God will give us, of the two proposed, Marie writes that the one of Dreiss is talkcatif, at least she heard so, it would be a pity if she was to mix with the girls above, perhaps we get the Stutgart one. Wait on the Lord and pray; to work in the Garden would not be the chief matter Uranie has been unwell during some days; she is thank God better. On the walk I have just seen the poor EvaMaile who looks very miserabel, both Dr say there is little hope of her getting well, I hope that you had not too much troubel with the cleaning of the cookroom.

It does not seem that papa is much better he writes we are going on pretty well not rapidly. I hope that this tripp shall not hurt him. Miss Thomas writes that he looks well and takes long walks

So our dear sister Ecklin has gone to her rest, if I could write to sister Hoch I would do it; but my hand trambel so that I can not, perhaps you would or Marie be so kind and do it.

You see how I have mixed everything in my note about the girl, I am so glad to think that I shall have nothing to do in the matter; but that God will guide you. I thank you for kindly taking the whole troubel about it. So Mina Laure is there love from me if you see her; Do you know of any thing we might bring to the boys; or would it be better to give each money to buy coppy books or what? be so kind to tell us.

This morning we had rain and now a fine hot sun. I shall be glad to come home again; is Ri in good humour? does she know that we seek some body, I am so glad that I am not there specially for the girls of Barthd; 
Please give my love to Miss Th I hope she does not take amiss my not writing I rally cannot to her and dear Miss Dorsch I send hearty love and to Elise when she comes, to Steinhause of course specially. I am so glad that their intercorse with B is becoming so interesting and blessed, she could not have found better I wish a reward to dear Julia, and with true love to you from me and Uranie I remain
 Yours thankful J.G.
 love to all at home
