 Wildbad 2d June <75.>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of 1 June I am glad that you could have a talk with B the way is opend, may God bring her to a confession; with out it nothing can be expected. On our walk we met the Brighting, she is a nice lady from Mulhousen, he from Gekingen but knows no one there as his father left when a Child; perhaps that they will see Calw on their way back. I met also Miss Adelaid Römer a friend of Jettle to whom she sends hearty love, she is with her Aunt Mrs. Hardstein. I think, this young lady is a fine soul what a perle She liked Smith much her Aunt auch; she has also heard that Blumh and his sons are much again Smi In the preaching here she observed that the preacher is not for this new elucitric way. I told them of Ramsey who is expected in Calw also to the Colporteur who sees the Minister often he will try whether they would not have a Mission meeting.

Much love to dear Marie, she does not take amiss that I do not write her separatly? is it not? Good Carl he may help his brother to get on in his lessons. Have no news come from John? I wait to hear some what. So Elise Weit so near, that will give great joy, my love to them please. 
Have you heard nothing from Colonel Young about the Miss who was to come to Kornthal? David is rather silent that is you had a letter I forgot, Strange that Frederic knows nothing of his mouvements, and no news from Froh. By Fs letter I see that you are going to Canstatt next sunday! In the Stift lives a Missiony Link I hear, he has meeting on thursday evening Miss Reumer intends to hear him with us he is a baptist she says he cannot walk 
I am glad dear Jettle that you have visits; it would also be good to get Miss Metzger the friend of Louise and all you like, also Julia Weitbrecht. You just do as you think right. Already half of our time over, we injoy that fine worm weather.

I suppose one is at work cleaning the cookroom, Has it been so cold with you that things did frise? on the 28th you would know it by our beens and grapes;

We met again on our walk deer old acquaintances. I trust the news of Jettle about your health are true and that you sleep better.

 With love to all
 Yours affectly J.G.
