 <Calw 15 Mai 75>*
Dear Children [Friedrich]

I have two notes from you for which I thank you as well as for your kindness to Frederic and his wife. they have a fine day to walk about; he was very poorly here I hope that he is better with you.

I have written to David about the Shirts, I do not buy made up fronts for shirts to have them made up with fine good linnen is better. 
Uranie is well she sends you much love, she shall be glad to see you when you arrive here; for we shall be back from Wildbad where we shall go DV. on the 24 of this month; it is such fine weather that one would be glad to be already there to have finished. Heatherto papa has not been quite well and he has three hard days before him as he will have told you. I shall be glad when you are here you may perhaps contribute to his getting better with Gods grace; you will find him some what changed; as he has no appatite and still a little fever. Aunt Mary will have admired your Julia no doubt. 
Elise Weitbrecht who is already in Alexandria to return home, longs much to see her good friend Emma, she is expected in the middle of June, the father is pretty well since he had 15 days quiet with his son in law and Martha. Stolz makes a much butter impression than at first. Emanuel and John Muller are here E. sleeps with us as they have no room nor bad, John is but for one day now; he comes again and shall sleep with E till our dear Plebsts come on Wednesday. Maries visits have gone for a few days they shall return for 8 days and than go away we liked them much

Adieu my very dear Children with love and kisses from us to you three  Yours afftly
 JG.
