 Calw 8 June 75
My dear wife

Only a short letter to say that I returned well from the journey. Was met at St by Plebst Emma and Adolph, dined there and read a letter from Johanna at Kiel who is getting better her arm being daily kneaded by a woman. To Cannstatt, saw Mrs Heberle and Marie Uber, the latter glad that Elise came to Triest. To Eßlingen with the Schweizer who was pleased with Smith. Mrs Mglg had been sent to Boll being in a critical state. I recommended him to ask Dr Zeller about her. Saw the Steudels in whom there is also a work of God observable. At Tübingen with Oehler's and Elise Steudel who is very nicely. Saw the Bellon's and their 4 children, lively beings very confidential from the first moment. Spoke to the students. Then slept in Gustav's room who is Buchhalter there. In the morning with Rieger from Kirchheim the brother of our Rieger; he goes with his mother and sister to Königsfeld (Moravian) is full of Paul's memory, very firm and happy. Arrived at 4 1/2 when Miss Th came to meet me. Mrs Schauber going at the same time to Baden. Saw all in the house (the great room white washed) had a visit from E.S. Carle and Marie who showed the last letters of John. We are now settling about Altenstaig and Nagold. Mrs Zeller writes to you and me very touchingly and invites to come with Rams. and wife. What do you intend? When can you return? Mrs Z would of course be glad if you came with the Swiss friends; she writes as if it might be a last visit, but the letter is long and cannot be translated.

Carl Weigle saw Dav, intended to go with him to Brighton last Sunday. John writes cheerfully but with little in the stomach tho' the Engl brethren are very kind. Jenny wrote from Berlin very happy. Aunt Traegerle is at Hdlbg charmed with Julie who knew her at once, perhaps they come quicker than intended before, say the women on Tuesday, Fred. after them on Friday. Mrs Rams. greets heartily. For next Monday we have Miss.verein here instead of Tuesday to hear Mrs Ramseyer.

David saw Carr again and hoped he might visit us if invited now. Goodbye  with love to you both Your H.
