 Calw 3 Jun 75
My dear wife

I am glad of your enjoying your time; we are going on pretty well, not rapidly. B came up to me and brought 5 letters of G. and one of his wife as a sort of first instalment. But of the money she would know nothing. I had a long talk with her as she seemed so determined to turn a new leaf, however confessions did not come out. Nor did I press too hard for them, but prayed at last with her, that the Lord may help them on and give her grace not only to will but also to perform. She was then much affected as she felt how I stood to the matter. Today she brought the goldcross given to her by G. for me to keep it, but I returned it to her as it can not help me any thing and I wish her to know that I stick to my terms. The letters of G. are harmless, of course I do not know whether they are all that have come. But she is softened so far, that she went to Miss Müller and showed herself ready to teach her, which she at first had declined to do. That looks a little like coming down, though by slow steps. May God quicken them and lead them in the right direction.

Dav. writes from Edinb. 31 May, on the point of leaving it. The Miss lives far away and could not come for 14 days. Dav. saw Hörnle, the nephew of Mglg, was present in the Assembly of State Church which looked poorly after that of the Freechurch, made then some excursions to Glasgow and the lakes in the North, likes the old Capt Orr (85 years old) Yg's father in law, and returns in the evening to London where Carr has arrived. You could not read the letter which is very hastily written. - About Rams's movements we cannot be sure, nor could I promise anything for Wildbad till I have seen him. - John is happy at Brighton and well cared for. - Link is a Miss[ionar]y of the Albrechtsbrüder, was formerly at Stuttgart.

That dear Mrs Ecklin has gone home you will see with hearty interest. The paper was addressed to you.

Fred has it seems very little to do which is a comfort as he will want time for packing. He is a happy fellow to get such a good aunt for his daughter as Mar is going tomorrow to join and help them. She came to say Goodbye and we saw she liked to be again a Traegerle. - Sunday I shall go to Stuttg and Canstatt, sleep at Eßlingen, Monday to Tübingen and Tuesday morning back to Calw. Now Goddbye. With best love to dear Uranie
 Your HG.
