 Genova 19 Jan 75
My dear wife

Yesterday I went to H Jorand for dinner at 5 o'clock, saw his half Engl halffrench wife and the children, one of whom lies in bed with throat complaint, talked much with Bolognini, a freemason and Protestant, visited then a prayermeeting of the Waldenses where few were present, but they prayed and sang heartily. The good brother Jorand accompanied me back to the house, when we met his doctor, Millingen, a brother of our late Major Millingen. He has himself been Dr at Cannanore in 1829. This was so far satisfactory as Jord wanted to call for him on acct of his daughter. In the morning I visited Rubattino the steamer agency, where I was told the Persia would arrive within 48 hours. A letter was to be written to Livorno to demand a telegram from the Miss if she was on board the Persia when touching at Livorno. On Thursday I shall hear the answer and can then decide what to do. - I went to Jord at his office but he was absent, afterwds he came and accompanied me to Mr Schultze the young German minister here, who was to give a lesson to his school, so that the visit was short. - Now I have to sit at the table d'hote and then visit the Jorands who have a number of people reading and writing with them on Tuesday evenings.

Your letter arrived this evening 4 o'clock. I am sorry to hear of Maries troubles and wish they may be soon over. Plenty love to all, also to my rempla‡ant in the bed. It does not crack under him, whatever it may do under my weight.

I perspire whenever I walk here - saw a palmtree and orangetrees, the latter loaded with fruit in the gardens and find the sun powerful even in Jan[uar]y. The view from certain eminences is truly grand. But I feel that I have little taste for these things, home is better than any strange sight. 
I hope Jette has also written for me to Weissenstein, as I have not carried out my purpose. Things went on to rapidly that I forgot all about it. 
Do not write any more. I shall ask to morrow and possibly on Thursday what the news are. If I can find out anything about the passengers of the 10th, supposing there were some who then landed here. I might leave Genova immediately after discovering that, but the landlords at the hotels are not very communicative about passengers that have left some time ago. Any how I feel that after Thursday I have no longer any duty here. It is a strange story any how. The Rubattino Secretary fancied the lady would have telegraphed on reaching the first port, I fear she might even reach the last port without caring about my movements.

Now the Lord knows for what all this may be good, and if he is not displeased with us, the rest does not matter. May he be present with you and give you many joys
 Ever Yours H.G.
