 Calw 9 June 75
My dear wife

I hope you get this letter Thursday afternoon and not so late as that of Tuesday. Hermann writes very nicely, also to you - Link is an Albrechtsbruder (which is a sect of Method. in America, who would not stand under English bishops, but have their own German leaders - you know perhaps the name now, it has nothing to do with our Albrecht)

I think it best you come on Saturday evening, Jettle will receive you and all will be prepared to receive the Rams on Sunday evening. Then once you visit dear Mrs Zeller, you might go and come in half a day. I fancy it will be the right time to leave Pforzh 8.20. be at Brötzingen 9 o'clock and go out, enter the train for Calw 9,21 and come here 10.12.

Yesterday evening came Elise. I waited on the street, saw how she and her father came out of the Waldhorn carriage (10 1/2 at night) and greeted. To come up the stair case was not easy, she walked very slowly, but so meak and quietly joyful, I was glad of the short meeting. Today she slept out and rests. I do not go down till I hear that it is liked.

Fred. may come next Thursday, Emma the day before. We shall have here a meeting in Church Monday at 5 o'clock, and the ladies Verein with Mrs Ramseyer at 2 o'cl. We liked her anew at Canstatt.

Leave a card for Praetorius with your address - any bit of paper. 
Herm writes poems and all sorts of things for me, which is very acceptable. John will have gone to London on Tuesday. I hope he now looks up and becomes cheerful among his friends. Much love to Uranie Goodbye  Yours HG.
