<ad No. 108)>* <Calw 26 Sonntg / 27 Montag Sept 75>*
 <(erh. 16 Oct)>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

I really do not know whether I have ansewered yours of the 1 Sept. I hope that dear Tine with the children had joy in Detroit and has bought several useful things.

About that money I keep for you would it not be good to buy a watch for Tine the repetition you speak of is a poor thing very old and going so fast that she is not of much use inspite of having been with the watch maker. 
Yesterday I went quickly to Canstatd to see a friend of Uranie who is there for cure, papa was then to Leonberg with Miss Thomas and our three visitors in Stamheim that is the Mother of our Miss Dorsh with her son. Jettle is away for 10 or 12 days, she wanted recreation for her head.

We are very glad to have Frederic near his Julia is very fat and round and so Cunning to catch the attention and love of her Grandpapa, that it is amusing to see them together, Adele Hesse is a pretty little thing, brave except now and than when the night songs are too frequent or too long Our Christine is thank God well, however she must be spared two weeks ago we had rather much to do than she coughed and spitted a little blood but now she is again well and does with joy as much as one can wish from her. It is already cold with us, the grapes are getting ripe in our garden I pik them up as soon as they are ripe without waiting till the whole be ripe for in that case we would probably get none ourselves, According to your last Marle has got the big doll that is right for the long evenings in winter to have an amusement. while Julia is doing the dresses for her. 
I hope that dear Tine shall have a good winter and not much troubled with her hands

With a good kiss to each of you Yours affectly
 J Gundert
