 Wildbad 4th June 75
Dear papa

So you are going away for two days I wish you a good time, you are not yet well I hope the journey and fatigue shall not make you worse. A Mrs. Schmied whom I met by Mrs. Z had just read in the papers your praise, she asked me to visit her daughter Mrs. Rückel or what. Miss Seeger knows her story she fell last year in going down the stare case of Widman in Calw, since that she cannot walk, her husband died so suddenly in the fabrique in Heilbroon with Bätzner. So Link is of that sort! I have not heard him. May the Lord not give up B till she comes to reallity. She wrote me with Marie, give her please my love and thanks for hers she will excuse my not writing her, also Marie of whom I was truly glad to hear about John, when is he to return?

Uranie is not quite well these days, I see Mrs. Z<immermann>* often, she has always a great deal to say I lent her your book telling her that if she will have one which is well worth while she can get one with the Colporteur here, On the whole great many things are wanted biside the only needful one. Adelaide R seems to have whole with it, or in it, how very few find this perle sufficient selling all for it. Love to the boys and to Möglings with our other peopel in Stutgart and Canst

Adieu Gods blessing on you and work
 Yours affectly JG

Miss Fecht has just been here she sends love to Miss Thomas and hopes to find that she has given herself much troubel in playing piano, she goes back monday and trust to be abel to praise the dilligence of her pupil There are several young ladies in Calw who wait for her return to take lessons,

Kind love to Miss Th to Miss Dorsh to all in the house Also from Miss A R to Jettle

Many thanks to dear Jettle for her kind letter I trust the Lord will show which of the two personnes are to come to us, I thank also for all the troubel you have about it. It was good to send off Hanesle he is a longweiler wants more than double the time others would require to do the work. Here it thunders and rains if you have the same. Ri will not like it with cleaning, is she good humour? JespŠre que Dieu fera son oeuvre chez Miss Th sa lettre ne dit rien de particulier je l'aime dis le lui en m'excusant s'il te plait; il y a bien des jours que je n'ai pas vu Mlle Fecht. 
justement elle arrive, elle a encore des douleurs; mais espŠre que ca passera, A Marie et ses fils des baisers aussi … toi de ta Julie et Uranie 
Beside a gold crosse is a chain from G. to B
