<ad 85 eigtl 84.>* <Calw 18 Apr 75 birthday!>*
 <erh. 15. May mit dem v. 26. April>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

We have rejoieced with you that dear Julia got the price at school, the turn of Marle will also come, that her diligence shall be rewarded as the one of Julie. We praise the Lord for His goodness to you ward. He leads you from faith to faith increasing the light on your path, making that the word of God is very precious to you and the food of your soul, You have joy to preach Christ and I doubt not that He shall make you a blessing for some souls; that they may live, O that is a great grace to be faithful in speaking of Jesus love, in caring for the souls telling them of Him who has come to seek and safe that which was lost.

I read with interest something about Moody in London, his speaches in all the great towns, all is so very natural so simple and quiet; that one must confess it is Gods work to use such a simple instrument for the conversion of so many thousends, good sense, tackt faithfulness is to be felt in that which he says. I would go till Stutgart to hear him if he were coming, while I have had no piculiar attraction to go to hear Smith who today is in Kornthal and shall be the whole week in Stutgart. a great number of Calwer and of the neighbourhood have gone to Kornthal our house people too I hope and pray that they may really return with new life and love I have the feeling that I would not have heard better than I have in Steinhofer and that which the Lord teaches me by His spirit, that which is wanted can no man give me, that is obedience to the spirit, willing only that is Gods will. putting aside that I self and letting Jesus my Lord live rule subduing all in me that at last His image be established in me to the Glory of the father.
I feel that I am backward and guilty in confessing Christ I have become so indifferent for the salvation of others I must repent and pray for more zeal and love. May God fill you with love and use you for the conversion of many souls that you may not be ashamed as I am, With a tender kiss to my very dear Tine her pets and yourself
 Yours afftly JG
