Mrs. Hesse, Calw

 Wildbad 5 June <75>*
My very dear Child Marie

On paper with your name as you see I write you, I do not understand where I got it, Many thanks for your kind note, I was longing for news about dear John. I hope that at last some one had pity with him and gave him the right food, or God sustains him without it. how do I rejoice to hear him relating of Gods work there. I have read in that Oxford book the name of Sulivan from Brighton his speaches pleased me best of all after Smith, has perhaps John made accointance with him? when do you expect him. I can easily understand that you were in need of some rest I hope that you can injoy it; and your sons do they ask after papa? For body and soul rest is needed, without time to read Gods word and pray we do not prospere if we content our selves with the needful thing there will be always time to study it that is Jesus. Much love to your dear boys they can bath it is warm enough, has papa done it? If Jettle could not write to Mrs. Hoch about her mothers death would you do it please I cannot.

Still a week and we shall be near the end of our time here, It would be a pity if the girl of the Dreiss were going to get in friendship with the girls above us as you say that she is talkatif; but we do not know as yet whom we get, we trust the Lord will care for us. I thank you heartily for your two kind letters, papa relates of Carl about the sheep the Lord having only 100 how could there be 200 on the marquet, dear Child he is also one of Jesus lamb, a good kiss to each of them; I am much in thoughts with John.

Excuse us please by Mrs. Dreiss papa and myself he could not go to repay the visit being unwell, Adieu my dear Child. if you write to your brothers give my love please, With kisses from Uranie and self
 Yours affectly JG.
