 Calw 25 Mai 75
My dear Julie

Today Carl's birthday. I went yesterday evening to the Hesses and invited him to see me in the morning as I could offer him a cigar. So he came before 8 got (the chocolade) cigar and 1 Thaler, which I enjoined him to bring to his Mama. In going out he said I like this into my Sparcasse, damit die Heiden frömmer werden. It must be something from the Sister: perhaps he fancies, the Sparcasse helps also the Mission. Joh told me afterwards that he demanded no more to be called baby since he is now old, and to give him a Kreuzer per day instead of the sugar for his breakfast, it seems also for that Sparcasse which makes the heathen more pious. - I talked with the ladies who have ideas about Horb Rottweil Strassburg Heidelberg and what not all. I gave to Jennie what we had spoken of, she was very deeply touched by it. - Today came Burkhardt (once with Beutelspachers, his mother was buried 8 days ago) to accompany Hesse tomorrow to England. Also Pfarrer Eipper for whom Paul preached so often will accompany them we hope, so it will be a nice company, probably gathering strength as it proceeds on its way.

They say Rickele uttered some words (towards Hannele) as if she was sorry of what she had said and how she had behaved. To us she seems courteous, but speaks little.

Nothing about ________________ that I could hear or observe. 
I slept nicely, was also prepared for a nap after dinner when Burkhdt came, after he had talked with Hesse. Burkh feared the Ladies and Jettle showed him now to escape by going up the staircase. When he did this against my will he threw my coffee cup to the ground. It proved not invulnerable. So I gave him a lesson and let him out.

No more news, but I am glad that you both found your way easily. May the Lord bless your stay there. With much love to you both
 Your HG
