 Edinburgh 23 May 62
My dear wife

Here I am at Edinburgh, after a fine trip along the coast by steamer. Mrs Miller sends you love I saw her some 10 minutes only. Mrs Foulis also asks after you (by letter), so does Col Carr now at London. He has seen Hebich and writes now very warmly, hopes to see me at London and visit us at Calw. I think his mind is getting right again. Dr Foulis is very kind, so is his Mama Lady Foulis, a very earnest Christian. Yg stays here with me over the Assembly, when the Ladies also come to the hall and the prayermeetings and stay sometimes till midnight! Mrs Findlay Anderson sends much love, she is the same quiet sweet person she was at Mangalore Col Yg's brother Denholm, the Baptist thinks of settling at Stuttgart for his pocket's benefit, having retired as Major with 8 children and not being able to live upon his pay in Engld comfortably. - Herm. wrote to me the 18th from Bremerhaven very dejected in spirit. The voyage stood evidently as a great task before him. The men were rude and as he felt not to be trusted. Now I hope he learns to pray and trust the Lord. I hope to leave this for London on Monday evening and go from Lond to Paris Thursday night with Yg and Orr They will not however come with me to Calw but follow me after 2-3 days, as Orr wants to see something of Paris. Thanks for all news. I hope soon to see again the children and will not therefore write. I wish I could say something more but the posttime is at hand and then follow meeting hours far into the night! Love to the Balingen party and may they have a happy spring vacation

With love
 Yours HGdt
