 111 July 62
<Nisbet London>*

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 7th inst, which I have lost no time to lay before Dr Barth.

We were indeed surprized to learn that the printer's estimate exceeds by so much the outlay you had formerly judged necessary. But upon mature consideration Dr Barth has come to the resolution to proceed with the work rather than defer it ad infinitum. He trusts that the sum of œ 432 for which he is to be responsible will on no account be exceeded. And if by any contrivance the number of shuts should be diminished, he hopes he will have the benefit of such an arrangement. He would f.i. wish the Scripture text to be printed in continuous lines, somewhat in the way the Annotated paragraph Bible has it.

It is then Dr B's wish that the Pentateuch being the part which the Rev Mr Kübler has revised be forthwith taken in hand. The part of the NT not finished can easily be furnished by the translator in due time, so that no delay need be anticipated on this score. Neither will Mr Kübler's absence materially interfere with the progress of the work, if as I trust he has received before his departure the remaining portions of the O.T. Mspt. 
This is the arrangement observed in the German origines, and it appears to him preferable for other reasons than those of mere economy. If it has not been followed In the English Mspt, it was solely in consequence of the translator finding it more convenient to cut the texts out of printed Bibles than copy them with his own hand.

Hoping that by the blessing of God the undertaking may come to a prosperous end. Dr Barth will be ready whenever you wish it to remit to you a part of the sum due.
