 Calw 13th May 1862
Dear Samuel.

Last week you had news of us all by Hermann for I believe that he wrote you daily, and during his stay at Stuttgart you will have heard no doubt, I wish only he would write less and learn quietly before the Lord what He has to teach him: Poor Herman he is still tipsy and full of self he will have to go down deep in humiliation before he knows himself and humbles himself. I expected before I saw him to find him more broken. You are too indulgent to him dear Samuel, the spirit of independence of disobedience is so strong in him along with pride that he is as it were blind and deaf for Gods word. Gods word is not much to him, he is too great himself. of course he is not aware of it and will also not hear it from others. Oh Samuel take a warning and when you write to him be not over come with feelings of tenderness and sympathy it helps only to blind him. I know that you have also told him the truth, and I thank God for it; but you must harden yourself against too tender feelings and for his soul's sake learn with Paul to know no man according to the flesh. Dear Samuel you will understand me and not mean I am without feeling for dear Hermann; but to help him to know himself we must enter into God s mind. What a curse is it not to be desobedient, what a dreadful thing is it not. how many sins become the consequence of disobedience and independence. also it is written blessed is the man who bears the yoke in his youth. I begin to fear for David who is so independent: pray that papa and I may have grace and firmness to guide him. 
You have probably news direct from papa, he was greatly grieved about H. 
Adieu my dear Son
 Your Mama J. G.

This was already written dear Son when yours of the 10th came thanks for it and for your portrait which shows well your sorrow and grief; My grief about H is not his not becoming a missionary I have always felt some what uneasy about his becoming a missionary; for he knows so little of the Lord of his word that he could not have taught others, till he be converted it would be a greater satisfaction to me that he be a teacher of sciences than of God's ways with which he is either too so little acquinted, he might have been teaching wrong doctrines being so sure of himself and with out ears to others experience but specially to God s holy word. Be of good courage dear Son I do not lay such strong__________1 for being a missionary I have seen too much that a missionary is like an other man and may at the end be rejected of the Lord and beaten of many stripes because of the resposibility of his office which he did not consider.

No I am at a real conversion, if one is once converted God uses him and the more humble and distrust of himself the better this dear H had not. Belief in God and you schall be as is said in Corintians I 25...292 be only small and God will use you be ampty and God will fill you

I have confidence in God for you so long you distrust yourself. We are all alike our strength is to be weak really weak in self then the Lord who will be all in all fills us use us to his Glory Look to His fulness it is yours Yes dear Son Yours Only poor in self then rich in Him our head and brother. 