 Calw 3d Nov 1862
My dear Samuel

Your last letters have rejoiced me. God be praised for His faithfulness to you. As long as you feed on the word of God and wish to humble yourself it will go well. Who schall be great in heaven the Lord has told it to us and showed how one can be truly humble and lowly in serving others as he had done a servant of all putting <on>* the apron not one day in the year as the pope; but always You schall always have good stuff for a meeting if you distrust your self and believe firmly that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation, much prayer makes the blessing in the meetings, dear Rochat used to fast and pray every saturday for the preaching he was to have on Sunday. Nothing can help for a preaching or for a meeting or for a conversation as prayers, in prayers for us and for others we gain the point God is bound to help and bless when we rely opon Him intirely. To day papa had a fine subjet in the Verrein. "When I am weak than I am strong His strength magnifies itself in our weakness.

We look daily for a letter from Herman. The three boys here are going on well, papa has much to do. Apropos having heard that some body had been thinking of a wife for you I trust that you study well the Epistles to Timothy and that like a good soldier you do not meddle with any thing which could hinder the spiritual life. Young people give way to the devils with their thoughts about marrying and deal just like the world in this matter this person would do well, that one would fitt etc all is done without the Lord, and even missionaries dare do so and young people who prepare themselves for the work of the Lord, so people chaine themselves with fetters so that they cannot walk freely Dear Samuel take care of your eyes of your thoughts, if you trust the Lord in all those things He will treat you well He honores those who honor Him. May God keep you in all thing Adieu your Mama
 J. Gundert
