<Nisbet in London>*

 1Calw 6 Dec <62>*

Having asked Mr Kubler to speak to you on the subject of the Bible Manual I had hoped to hear from him before addressg you. Hence my delay in writing to you about Dr B's death. Now as you write some what in the way of enquiry I lose no time to assure you that Dr B's death will in no way interfere with the work in hand. The fact is it was the foremost of the thoughts relating to this side of the grave that occupied his mind during the last painful weeks of his life. He knew that I was not very sanguine abt the matter having indeed dissuaded him from undertaking it on our sole responsibility after my return from Engld. He had also no money to leave after havg bequeathed his books to the Soc[iet]y (his only capital amountg to œ 42 and what he leaves about the house goes to the support of his poor brother and his servts)

But his heart was set on this enterprise so that at last by a Circular which I had to draw up he bequeathed the task of accomplishing it to his nearest friends. Several of these are now forthcoming with offers of help. The Committee of the School B[oo]k Soc[iet]y (Verlagsverein of C.) in calling me to be his successor have also by a resolution dated the 19 Nov unanimously adopted the plan to be carried out at all risks in memory of its founder. This was done by members who in B's lifetime would probably have voted agst the proposal if he had brought it before them. You see then that there need be no hesitation regarding the business.

Will you kindly draw up a letter to ask for the 1st instalment of the paymt due to you. I hope to have the money ready within a few days. 
 With Christian regards
 Yours truly
 HG
 121 Berners Street, London, Decr 2 1862.

Revd and Dear Sir

We have just observed in the Newspaper a notice of the decease, after a life of devoted usefulness, of your dear friend and neighbour Dr Barth. Will you think us intrusive in at once stating our hope, somewhat however in the way of enquiring, that that sad event will not interfere with the publication of his Bible which is now somewhat advanced in printing - say about a fourth or third.

 We are
 yours truly
 Sam Nisbet Co
