 Calw 22d March 1862.
My dear sons.

Many thanks for your last letters. Yours specially Samuel brought to my mind the words of Paul to the Philli III.1 IV.4. and in speaking of his suffrings Paul says we are cast down and still always joyful. I read also more carefully the last speaches of the Lord to his disciples in John 13 till 18th Chap. specially XV from 7 till 11th verses also XVI. 22.24 ver. XVII.13. but there is a condition to poscesse this ful joy that is if you abide in me and my word abideth in you ask all what you will and it shall be done to you, answer to prayers make the joy perfect After having been justified by the blood of the Lamb peace is made between us and God and we have the pardon of our sins, this assurance provoque the first joy: and keeps it up in the same measure as we daily take from his fulness grace for grace. But according to John there is a perfect joy when we see our prayers answered. Were we truly well occupied with the Kingdom of God, with the conversion of souls, we would understand better this joy proceeding from ansewer to prayers. It seems to me I have scarly began to know this abiding in the Lord to which is the promise ask what you will it shall be done How little do we know the Lord, how little of His life and power in us do we not feel. Have we perhaps not died with Him? such blessed communion with the Lord, cannot be attained without much prayers and perhaps fastings; for there are also devils which do not go out except by prayers and fastings so well in us as in those with whom we have to do We understand still little what is pray without ceasing, pray instantly, be watching unto prayers. When the salvation of others and the Glory of God has truly occupied us then we learn to pray and understand that the Lord begins His prayer almost with the words thy Kingdom Come. When shall his Kingdom occupy us more than all our little concerns! When shall we be so poor so humble so empty of self that we know what is that to live from Grace, drowing so constantly from His fulness that we also in some measure be able to say I live not Christ lives in me. I can all things in Christ! Ah dear Sons We have still much to gain or to recieve, but to do this we must first give up and die with Him. I am often confused in considering the words of the Lord "He who believeth in me shall do the works which I do and even greater" Is our faith so small or do we pray so little that we do so little? Truly if the Lord was coming to take his bride how very little faith would He found, how is yet his bride mixed with the world how little looking and waiting for Him, therefore there is so little love between the children of God, though the prayer of the Lord was that they be one as he was one with the father. We are to be separeted from the world without that we know not what is to love one an other, which gives us confidence before the Lord. Oh dear Sons we are far from that we should be, let us pray fervently.

 Adieu Your Mama J. Gundert
