Dr. H. Gundert, 8 High Street Islington, London1

 Calw 10th May 1862

This morning came your letter dear papa to Dr B. we were looking for it yesterday so long Tante and Herman were still here. Samuel wrote Herman that on Saterday he could find the Inspector in Stutgart, they left yesterday friday <9 Mai>* his box had arrived on Wednesday evening so we had time to wash still his dirty things and prepare all quietly. Tante and I could speak to him and he listened it seemed! the Adieu was quiet and God was very gracious, Tante was rather mouved by time and wished me to go to Stutgart to be longer with H. but it would have been of no use. We both told H whether it would not be advisable to take less money with him considering he might loos it, or have it stolen, or even an accident on board, he then confessed that he had been uneasy about it and would be very glad if he could get it in New York. So I wrote Frederic to give him 100 G. at his arrival so much I kept here. Tante gave him 10 to make up 55 for his journey Mrs Wöhrle gave him two pieces of Gold American money perhaps 45 G. together value. Samuel has sent an account the charges of his box to Bremen and something else about 17 G I think this we shall pay afterward to Samuel. We are thank God all well, the children are obedient. As Marie gives you more news with David I Will leave room to them with love to you and the friends  Yours Julie Gundert

David is absent so I have to add that it went well in the examen he is the first and Deckinger the second on Monday they go to the preceptor D. gives his task to Julius as he did to you how far it is right I dont know but he is very happy he's often fishing and eats his fishes daily


2My own dear Papa - I have not many news to give you! Pfr. Eisenlohr and wife were here for a day or two, she visited us also the day on which tante and Herm had left. I am glad this parting is over. It stood before me like a dreadful mountain but it is past now and the Lord has helped over it. Dear Hermann, I liked him much better these last days, he asked much for a broken heart in his prayers. The inspector told Samuel he had expected that either you or Hermann would apply to him for a recommendation Samuel still sent his portrait, he looks like sorrow itself! - Dearest Papa, I hope the Lord comforts you, and gives you joy. I was glad to hear about Babette Bleuler, whom I knew at Kornthal, I still remember her face and have her birthday 5th May 1837 written in my Vergissmeinnicht. But there are my new pupils (2 apprentices) coming to our lesson. So I hasten to bid you farewell, my own dear Papa. I trust we shall soon hear from you again. With a kiss your affectionate "girl"
 Marie
