 Islington 16 May <62>*
My dear wife

There is hardly time to write. I have had days without dinner, so impossible it is, to make things to run on smoothly. Mrs Batten sends you her love (she leaves her children in Engld and will return with her husbd to India) Mrs Gr. very glad of your photogr. but esp Hannie who grumbled much that I did not bring you along. Also Walker's would gladly see you, and invite Marie once to accompany me and stay for some time with them! Edward Groves kann nicht mit seiner Mutter das Abendmahl nehmen, sie gehören zu verschiedenen Partien, und seine Braut ist strenge Darbyistin. Lawe hält sich zur Kirche und zu den Plymouth Brüdern zugleich, wie in Indien. Von Helene weiß ich nichts. Kann sie auch nicht aufsuchen Herm wrote a letter from Bremen still dreaming, but I can hardly think about it. Tomorrow I shall go to Scotland D.V. whilst he is going to sea. May the Lord give him grace soberly to look at things as they are. I have not seen Heb. any more, nor Pfander or Schurr. Gollmer is in the house and his children make a good noise; as for him he is very quiet. He thinks of going to Kirchheim. Mann will next week go to see his mother at Stuttg.

The fact is I cannot write - I have to think on too many things; and whatever I do, something or other falls to the ground.

Plenty love to all the children. As I sit in the omnibus, railway carriage etc I think of them one after the other - and I shall be glad when I see them all again - as many as the Lord keeps together for that time  Your HG

