 Calw 6th October <62>*
My dear Herman

It is already pretty long since I wrote you. but as I know that you get good deal of news through papa and the dear people at Stutgard and that I am no person for giving them I remain silent. I am no less with you and follow you often to your different stations and your visits to poor and sicks. May God give you word of life for those souls who are under you and grace to do a work which shall bear the fire which is to try all our works and who knows how very soon this may take place therefore let us work, while it is day; but not work alone which could but be a cursed work however fine it may appear to men, Yesterday papa preached in Stamheim on the words of the Lord abide in me that you may bear fruit. I trust the Lord has blessed the words for some poor souls, those who are not yet in Jesus have heard how they may have Him and those who are already in Him how they are to abide and bear fruit, taking from the vine strength. grace to glorify the father through the son by His spirit and so be able to wait on the comming of the Lord, daily being ready to receive Him with great joy. Paul said I am going to receive the crown of life which awaits not only me; but all those who shall love His comming. formerly one had to tell the christians to wait patiently for the comming on the Lord, and now we want that one tell us, learn to expect, to look to wait there is no impatience on this event which however will take place, and likely to the shame and grieve of many who professe to be Christ's.

You seem to be content with your lot I am thankful to the Lord for His goodness to you hither to, but your freedom must make you more dependant on the Lord and He is to rule over you, give much room to His spirit in you so that you may with a good conscience say free from the rule and yoke of man but a slave of my Lord whose will I do and not my own.

Paul and David are in Stutgart full of joy, the illumination was beyound all expression, the unutterable beauty can but be understood by those who have seen it, writes Paul! they wish to remain in Stutgart the whole time of their vacances. I have been there too to meet Selma Gundert who has spent there a few days. She was greatly pleased at the news you gave of her brother.

May God soon give you dear Son a fit help for this world and eternity Neither Frederic nor Fran‡ois have written to us yet. Adieu my dear Son I have often heimweh after you.

 Your Mama J. Gundert
