1Mr H. Gundert, <East. Siganaw, Mich.>*

1Daß jene letzte Geschichte eine blose Phantasmagorie war, ohne Anfang und ohne Ende, d.h. Wurzel- und Zwecklos, wirst Du wohl sehen. Kann aber doch Freudenquelle werden nach Psalm 84,7 "Die durchs Thränenthal gehend es zur Quelle setzen."

 Calw 14th July 1862
 <erhalt 11. Nov 62>*
My dear Hermann

At last a letter from you a long expected letter. How did we follow you day by day and from the 30th day looked for a word from you, the time has indeed appeared very long to us and had we known you were so miserable on board how troubled would we have been, Thank God that it is over; and that He has preserved you a midst such ivel company is worth praise. this hard begining will have prepared you as you say for submission and even thankfulness for a humble situation or office. We long to hear where you are placed and what is your work, but above all to hear how you stand with God. the Lord Himself and His Holy word has become dearer to you during the woyage and if you continue to have hunger and thirst after that word of life you will be well guided and preserved. it will teach you how to walk so that you may please the Lord and be a blessing for others. I feel as if I could say nothing because you are under God's own guidance and if you have grace to submit to it it will go well with you only distrust your self and as a child put yourself at the Lords feet.

This morning early appeard Samul having walked from Stutgard half night, he was very wet as it rains and put on the trawsers you lef here, That we much leave this house and the particulars about it you will hear likely by Marie, Since you left Frederic has been very nice and we have reason to hope that God has began a work in him, and the same with Julius Deselberger I was much rejoiced once by to hear of a conversation he had with papa in private about his soul.

Paul is obedient and continues to learn very diligently David too who is just now very much subdued by a severe toothache, it is really remarkable how soft and tender he becomes when he has pain, and on the whole he is more treatable than he was, and seems to learn well. Papa has been less well, fells weak and reduced, becomes thinner this would be of no consequence rather a benefit if he was well and strong.

I suppose you have enjoyed a good bath at your arrival in New York and washed away the filth of some weeks got on board, you were so fond of a bath in your papas big tub. that must have been hard to keep a shirt some weeks, but hunger still worse. After you had left us, I saw a minister here <Hochstetter von Buffalo s. Papas 2. Brief>* who has been in America 7 years, he had often hunger there, but he had wife and children and was often sent off from a congregation to another. I trust it will be better with my own dearest Herman.

 Yours affect
 J Gundert
