 <10 Oct 62>*
Dearest Tantele

What schall I say to you for the trouble you have taken to make me such a nice and worm peticoat really I feel ashamed. You should have done like me that is forget that it was our birthday. Accept my thanks first for it and then for the trouble and love you have had with our dear boys, they are greatly improved really they are so nice so obedient so lovely and so polite that you with dear Mama and tante the Uncles too must have done wonders in the dear boys. We had each of us except Frederic reall "heimweh" after these boobele. And David has got so many things for his birthday from each of you including dear Jette too.

I cannot thank you sufficiently. David is some what like Samuel who likes to have his birthday in Stutgart than in Calw Now for some days we have the pleasure to hear them relating of the beauties they have seen of the good things they have eaten of the love they have injoyed so richly; how Uncle Adolph took them about etc Once more accept each of you my sincere thanks. If the dear fellows were becoming unruly we would beg you to take them again under intruction which has improved them so wonderfully. 
I thank dear Mama for the cotton she has kindly sent me she must not sell it to me cheaper than to other people. I am very glad to get it from. I am quite pleased with the things Adolph has sent me papa will pay him 3. F 12 Cr for the whole.

My sincere love to dear Jette and thanks for her kind letter. Adieu love to all the dear people. I trust mama will be able to keep her promise that is to come with you next spring and stay with us. I already look with pleasure for that time and hope that Tante may join the party

Love from us all
 Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert
10th October 1862
