 <17 Nov 62>*
My dearest Herman.

The time appears to us very long since we heard from you, and many thoughts cross our minds. I even now and then have some fears as you have once said the Indianers were not far from you, however I trust God our heavenly father has spared you, I am thankful that we had at least indirectly news about you and that you are to be pastor in Detroit where you shall have friends and a healthyer climat; however we long very much to hear from yourself all the particulars about it. if you are some time too long with out news from us and it troubles you, you may easily imagine what it is for us, the thought you are perhaps ill and no one to care for you, or an accident has happened and no one near, many cares surround me about you, may God soon send us news from you we shall perhaps get two letters at once. If you indeed are in Detroit it will be less difficult to get a partener for you and I long much to see a dear Sister ready to go to take part of your joys and sorrows. if we should have the favour to posses her for some time with us it would make me very happy. We are so often with you in our thoughts that to be able to see and show love to the one who should be your help meet would rejoice us greatly.

The news about Dr B death and all that concerns us will papa tell you, poor dear papa is to be pitied he has too much to do,

Paul and David are going on well David might be more diligent. these last days he is very soft having been much affected by the sight of Dr B corpse, he had not see any one dead or did not recollect any, so it did him good to see Dr B. he is much more subdued and gentle. Heinrich Gros from Zafelstein is with us instead of Julious, they love each other and it is easy for us, also with George Dekinger it goes on pretty well at least better than formerly when they used to quarrel much and abuse Georg who is, it is true some what disagreable, from Samuel we have good news, of the death of Mr Martin you will have heard. Would not his daughter who should have married Mr Bott be a good companion for you? Papa and I talk often who might be a right person for you. May God soon provide you. Tantele came with Blumhart for D B's burial which was in Moetlingen from there she returned home, so we saw little of her. Adieu my beloved son
 Yours J. Gundert
