1Frl. H. Enßlin d. G.

 <8-10 Mai 1862>*
My dear Jette

Many thanks to you and your dear mother for your love and sympathy, which has really touched me. Ere you get this, you will have seen Hermann and can judge for yourselves, how it stands with him. The Lord has graciously helped us over this painful farewell and has upheld me in this time of sorrow and trouble. His precious holy name be praised. I trust to His mercy that He will yet do His work in the heart of my dear Son, yea I trust in Him and will do every thing for our Best. My nerves and eyes are still a little tired, so I let Marie write for me, and hope you will not take it amiss, dear Jettle.

We have heard from dear Papa, or rather, he has written to Dr. Barth, having no time to write to us too. He had a nice journey, without seasickness, but was of course much fatigued by the trip. We hope soon to hear from him again. -

You will, dear friend, excuse this very brief note, as we have little time just now. Much love to your dear mother. Marie joins with me in love to you Both. -

The Boys have vacations next week, and will go for some days to Balingen. Carl Mögling intends to come after that and spend a part of his holydays with them. We have not yet met with Mrs. nor Miss Faber, as they never came to see us. - Marie has got some new pupils, two apprentices who wish to learn English. - Now, dear friend, goodbye, the Lord be with you and your affect[ion]ate J.G.

2You will excuse my dear that I have not written myself, but on sutterday one has more to do.

Love dear to you both and true thanks for your kindness. the Lord is good to us glory and praise be to Him

 yours affectly Julie Gundert
