 <12 März 1862>*
Dear Marie

Many thanks for two kind letters of yours, I hope your stay at Stutgart will be blessed for you bodily and spiritually. I am very glad dear Tantele is going too to the sewing it is a help to you in many ways, So in this also God has made it better than you expected, so it will be in all what you fear for the future. Only learn to believe and trust God and He does all well for us. Mrs Wehrle, Lamp and Marie W. have visited me very kindly She has repeated her invitation to eat with them when we change house, I have accepted for you and Tantele. Marie has written you! The wool from Mrs B has already come. The girl Speis* who was so ill has been burried on monday. I could not go to it though I wished it very much I felt too weak. Rieger had invited all the school girls with their sisters to it so that it was a learge burrial. The girl Mann who was in the Hospital soit disant friend of Miss Wehrle is very ill She sent for me. one does not know what sicknes it will be, She spoke as if she felt her sins, so did her mother but one cannot trust the people when they are in want they will tell anything the mother said they were very poor I told her to speak to the Decan or Rieger to be helped. The singing on Sunday was not so very fine at least so sagen unsere Knaben ich habe auch gehört aber ich been kein guter richter. Heute hat papa die Stunde in schul wheil Rieger ist in Stutgart. Mit Frau Wirz* get es ihr wie gewohnlich sehr schwach. Love to all the dear people near you. Your portrait is very good

Adieu dear child
 Yours J Gundert
