 Calw 21 first Octb/ 62
My dear Herman

Thanks for your last letter, it is always a great joy for us to get a letter and we can imagine what a joy it must be for you in your solitude to get one. We are very often with you and would like to speak with you and sweeten a little your lonelyness. I wish heartily God would soon send you a help meet. Do you also pray about it and would you be ready to accept the person God would send you. Do you above all seek for a really pious girl. You may get one who according to your eyes and natural judgment pleases you, but whether she would really be a help meet and a suitable companion to you as Minister as child of God is doubtful. According to our thoughts Lucy who is so near and whom you like might do; but when even her mother would give her consent, are you sure she would be according to Gods mind, have you inquired and ascertained whether she and the others you mention have been converted or are at least earnestly wishing to be the Lords and would help you forward to follow the Lord and not be a drawback and cause you to sigh and mourn deeply hereafter. Dearest Herman pray earnestly the Lord on this matter it is for one's life

That Dr Barth is very ill you will have heard, he has had already two attacks of a poplucy <palsy>*, he can scarsly speak his tongue is so heavy he has very bad nights spends them usually at his windows where he can breathe better than in his bed he is now and than some what out of humour, he is so weak that he cannot alone put his clothes nor fasten the buttons, the day before yesterday he fell on the flour, the Weitbrechts heard the fall run up found him immouvable; but by and by he recovered his senses they all helped to lift him up and he walked again quickly to the windows, His brother was just there he wept bitterly and said when my brother is no more what shall I do I will come to live with his mädely that is Dr Barth servants girls, you know the poor man is a little cracked. Papa has very much to do yea too much and he might get more if Dr B should die as one expects 
Your brothers are well and glad the school has began again, it is already cold here and looks as if it would snow, papa sais you have the finest time of the year, that is your Autom (<Indian>* summer). Your clothes must want mending for the winter, and I hope you get good warm clothes for the cold, papa has told you to get money from Fran‡ois according to your wants and I trust you will do that. Adieu dearest Herman
 Your Mama
 J Gundert
