 8 Colebrook Row Islington <11 Mai 62>*
Liebes Weib und Kinder!

Also schönen Dank an Fried für sein liebes Versprechen und Brieflein. Zum Antworten reicht die Zeit absolut nicht. Wie froh werde ich wieder am Stillleben seyn. Hier gehen ganze Tage vorüber ohne daß ich an den Schreibtisch zu sitzen komme. NB für David habe ich etliche Postmarken, ganz rare, Finland, Barbados, Canada etc. Hier gibts einen rechten Handel in stamps, die theuersten sind alte Schweizer cantonsmarken, kostet eine 15 shilling, es ist ein Buch herausgekommen, enthält an 1300 Marken. Der Sohn des Hauses hatte 900 gesammelt, verkaufte das um etliche Pfund, und hat schon wieder 700. Er thut aber sehr rar damit, und ich kann ihm nicht viel abschwätzen! - It is strange to say so, but it is true nevertheless, that a journey is not so fatiguing as life in London. No idea of rest I can assure you! Even in the nights little sleep. The thoughts and impressions on the senses are too manifold. I have seen the exhibition building in visiting Hebich, but did not enter. I fancy there can hardly be much more inside than outside in all the streets together. Heb. feels somewhat uneasy here, he is put off from one day to the other. the people do not feel at their ease in letting him preach. But he will make his way. Herm's story and the news from India interested him much. He is very loving indeed, came also once to see me, (6 miles distance) but I was gone. He hides his collar somewhat and does hardly look very strange now. Also the beard is not the longest met with here abouts. Sessing is agent for the Wurtembergers as the exhibition. I hear that he is making his fortune. - Dear Mann, Julie Gundert's uncle, has now come to share my rooms. He has lost his wife very suddenly, the clever Walz (Marie must know her, a particular favorite of the Staudts). Besides her Mrs Hamilton is in the house, once Babette Bleiler, eine Kleinunterhäuslerin und grüßt M. herzlich. Sie ist sammt ihrem Mann zurückgekehrt. Many thanks for the Indian news. I hope Bührer's letter will be returned by Mögling. For Krone I could not do more than what is written below. For where I am to send them to, I don't know, and I cannot take them along. - Aunt mistakes about Helene. What can I do for her, when I have not even got her address? I can't hunt after her as I did the last time, and then by a costly wild goose chase. - Hermann's story comes of course up again and again. Isenberg confessed to me that he also had been influenced by H's aesthetic propensities about 1 year ago, and that it took a long time ere he recovered from it and found that a calling must be taken up with undivided earnest. He has now brought me a sealed enclosure for Herm. to whom I shall also address a short letter. Now let us commit him to the Lord - may He hammer at him till he gets into shape and becomes an instrument fit for the Master's hand. I feel it will be a very difficult progress and perhaps a wearisome transformation: but He will surely succeed and let us trust Him for it with a whole heart. With true love
 Yours
 HG
