 Calw 15th December 1862
Dearest Hermann

Though I wrote you not long ago I will not let this year pass away without a few lines to express you my wishes for the new year, which is for you for me and for the family in Christ, that is to become fit persons such instruments that can be used by the Lord for his purposes, I mean so empty of self that they may be filled by the Lord Himself. I fancy I have never had such a strong wish to know and experience what is that to be truly humble, <to have>* a broken heart and a contrite spirit. When the disciples asked who would be great in the Kingdom of God they did not very likely expect such an answer as to be the least, the servant of all in this world. Oh for such a spirit which dispises self and <is>* thankful when self has to die to become more and more like his Lord, the German word is so nice <">*ihm ähnlich sein<">* not to wish to be great among the children of God, to do much to be considered, no not that, but like Paul who wished to know the Lord in his suffrings humiliations, in death, I believe that the deeds which will best bear the fire on that great day are those which have been done in weakness and as it were feeling with Paul that there remaineth a part of the suffrings of Christ for his body the Church, to bring souls to Christ requires often from the instruments a sort of death in order that life be communicated to those who are still dead, certainly at all events much prayer and humbling of our self is necessary to be an instrument for the conversion of souls. And you my dear Herman who are a preacher of the Gospel a pastor of souls how have you specially to pray! for a very great responsability rests upon you, if you are truly humble and wait upon the Lord He will magnifie Himself in your weackness; but we must learn to depend on Him for all things distrusting ourselves intirely. This intire dependance upon the Lord is the blessing I wish you for this new year. 
All the news you get from the others who write you, An other blessing I wish you is a fit companion in your joys and sorrows. May God soon send you such a perle to share together the burden which lays on you Dearest Hermann I am very sorry that my brothers with their families are so little for you in a strange land, poor Fritz felt it hard when he came there imagine that he did not get any room with them and had to call his Aunt Eliza Madame and be as a stranger, if the poor boy has got in bad company no wonder I think Frederics were better with him but poor Fran‡ois's wife! be glad you are not very near. honor and money are things she aims at. Adieu my dear Son we remain with you in the Spirit

 Your Mama J. Gundert

