Miss Marie Gundert

 Calw thrusday <28>* August <62>*
Dearest Marie

Many thanks for your letter and for all the news, specially glad to hear Tante Vike is better, Marie Wöhrle comes this morning to make your "Bundle, I thought of washing your dress , but after uberlegen" we think it would be fresh nor nice enough, I went to the burial of the old Mr Merch there I saw Marie W. To day Mr Plebst dined with us and Mrs. Wirz; after dinar came the helfer for Caffe with Metz. Papa and P. are going to the helfer vor vesper. At the Verrein were Mrs Statförster, Heiler Wirz and Emelie Seger, in the children verrein were some new girls two Pelargus and a Federhafe. Mrs Schauber I have not yet seen but hope to do so tomorrow, So you are at Echterdingen I am glad of it, hearty love to dear Mrs Moerike and to the dear Carl, Metz told us that Mrs. Moerike would be ready to leave on the tenth of next monthe is it possible so soon? On Monday Frau pfahrer Gross came with Heinrich all his things were put right and he is very happy with our boys, till now they are full of regards for him. Marie Weitbrecht was also at the burying, You will have heard that Gotlieb is the first The third girl in the Hospital died of the nervous fever.

How is dear Mama and Tante? is there no hope of seing Mama here? When is the Wedding to take place? Next monday we have wash I shall be glad if no visitors come, this weak has been again pretty iterrupted with going and coming people. Give my love to the dear friends who remember me. I had again much joy to see dear Mr Plebst Friday. Mr Isenberg came for brackfast and goes tomorrow early with papa to stutgart. I will try now to see Mrs. Schauber and say Adieu with love to all the friends yours affectly  J. Gundert

