 Wildbad 9th June <1874>*
 <via Calw 15. Juny>*
 <in Mt Clemens 3. July 74>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for your kind letter after your return of Altsteig. Just after I had sent off mine this morning came the one here inclosed from Heidelberg. I went at 11 Oc to the termine and found there Georg Plebst quite happy of his journey. he slept in Carlsruh found the Irions well, she still very weak she can scarsly walk in the badroom, but there is little hope that she ever be strong again. The Yunglings Verein in Mulhuse very florishing more than 50 peopel. In Strasburg less satisfactory, they are devided in two parties, Yesterday on the walk we met Mr and Mrs. Schülgen, he was very friendly, she too he inquired much after you and Samuel who was in their business, he remind me to have drank bier mixed with watter in his house an unheard thing, it was in Canstatd,

10th I went to the train at 11th in hope to find dear Marie with her boys; it shall be an other day I trust. We have already Kirshen, meanwhile I send her my love as well as to every one in the house, has Mr. Hesse not felt his tripp to Altsteig? I fancy to have heard him saying that he would come to Wildbad.

A Mrs. Soupper wife of a minister comes often here for Mama, they sow often Ernst before he went to Nirtigen her husband is in Neuntäle She has in one hand something similar to Johanna in Barmen, from having cut herself a finger with a new nife, at first it appeared as if it was a small matter which hapens continually; but since 6 month she suffers till the sholder and two fingers are like paralised.

We now get our dinnar with the people in the house Mrs Schoolmeister cooks nicely, simple, we have enough and like it better than that which we had in the hotel for 1.30, here we give one fl for us three, Yesterday we made an Ovenslupfer in case Marie would come! nun perhaps there comes a large party on Sunday! Mrs. Kaufman Muller from Calw is our next neighbour, she has much pain to walk, we come now and then together.

Please give my love in Steinhouse to every one an other time I shall send a note for Heidelberg. Last sunday I was unwillingly reminded of the illness of two years ago, I felt so "miserable, so weak that I could but lie down todtmatt" now we are all well, Mama and Uranie injoy their stay here very much, It is pretty worm we have had no rain till now except a few droops one day, Georg said that every where were he went people praise the fruits of the grown, it contains much nourishment

Now with love to every one in the house and love from Mama and Uranie I remain
 Yours affec J. G.
