 Calw 21 Aug 74
Lieber Frieder und liebe Emma

Ja es geht etwas lang. Ich will mich aber doch anheischig machen auf den 13 Sept zu kommen, ich hatte die Wahl, verlegte aber Nürting auf den 20 und komme also früher zu euch, in der Hoffnung, daß bis dahin Mama H von ihrem langen Warten abgelöst wird. - Hier eine brasil von F Müller der in SPaolo angelangt ist, aber von seines Vaters Heimgang noch nicht gehört hat. Er denkt auch ans Heirathen, hats dort nöthig, denn Gehilfen sind rar. Ein Bf nach Paris (10 gramm blos) kostet 9 kr. Ich sende solche Couverte an Dav. 7 kr Couverte kenne ich nicht. D's Adresse "Mr D. G. 24 rue Bonaparte Paris". Hier sein Letztes.

Our story has now advanced a good bit On Wednesday there came 3 letters from Dr H. his wife and the sister Jenny, one nicer than the other. No doubts or questions, but the clearest shout of joy that he has chosen and that he chose so well. They talk as if the marriage ought to take place tomorrow think even of sending money if that can help on the matter, are full of assurance that this was the right thing and will approve itself as such. But I must say whilst I felt half ashamed before this childlike faith and joy, I half thought that there was some want of reflection. Not a misgiving as to the feelings of the Committee, nor as to the strength of the son to suffice to the double or triple task of being a workman, a husband and a father too, all at the same time. Mary and he are of course very happy, he also quite content to wait till Basle changes its mind. He could easily talk with Insp. whilst he finds writing rather difficult. Meanwhile we keep the matter secret, because the publicity comes in such cases soon enough and it might force us to make arrangements that would disturb the work. I think his health improves since this letter arrived. Possibly it lays a new charge on us, as G. is to leave Helfers and none else wants to take him, so that he already asked at the Saloon, whether they will have him. Answer doubtful. But his Mama asks, Could not we take him, as we are to be relations? What shall we say? I prepared Mama for the new task. Now may God help you and us and arrange all for our best!
 Yours HG
