<ad 28>* Calw 8th March 1874
 <in Mt Clem. 28 Merz>*
My dear Children [Hermann]

I have several notes from you which have not been answered, and I come; but to the last I have already regretted some time not to have given you the repetition <watch>* in thinking you had asked me towice whether we wanted it; we only use it when papa has to travel and to get up early the morning; as then, one does not sleep usually well I make the watch to repeat to know the time instead of making light to look to the clock It is quite right dear son that you speak of it, as soon as we get a good opportunity it shall be sent to you; but it must be some body sure. My good dear Tinne she certainly ought to have it, had I a better one she should have it, Your dear wife is so precious to me that I could and would heartily do any thing for her. I often regrette not to have given her several things which I might have spared.

Now dear son you say Jesus is your life it gives me great joy to hear, He must become our life more and more, but we feel and experience that without diminishing in self He does not live in us. As John the Baptist said I must decrease. The moment we are the less aware comes the enemy, finds our hearts unguarded then we are led away, Therefore the Lord has repeated the words "Watch and pray. His own words in the Lords prayer come often in my mind," Lead us not in temptation; but deliver us from evil; We are not aware how many temptations, snares, evil suround us; how good that the Lord said of His discipels in His prayer I have kept them in thy name, He keeps us too and watch over us, This should make us humbel and fully dependant on our Lord; fearing to make a step alone. We praise and thank our Lord that we are kept by the power of God through faith.

From Uranie we have good news Frederic is uneasy about his son who is ill, and spends much money living in the south with his wife. The connection between father and son does not appear to stand on a right footting, on both sides; but it is better not to think of it, for one cannot help it; but pray that God would work in both,

Dear Tinne has been unwell with magenweh there is perhaps a cause? she must not work too hard, too much I send her a tender kiss, to Julia and Marle too and with one to yourself I remain yours
 affectly JG
