 Calw 8 Jun 74
My dear wife

I went to Altenstg, slept well and prepared a sermon which I found on entering the vestry was meant for a wrong text, so I had to change. Hesse came at 1 o'clock accompanied by his brother, rather tired, having swallowed much dust, but he did his part well and rested then in my room. Fried Müller, the Pfarrverweser spoke also, I had to close. We sat a longer time than the others (Langbein, Hornbergers f.i. who have a 2d child) Buess came also the schoolmaster, then returned in coup‚ high above the dust, and by rail. Marie and Jettle accompanied us from Bahnhof. They had been with the Sunday school children in the forest, whence Thodo has gathered for me many Mockele in his botanisir Kapsel.

I do not send you the letter of Sam as you could not read it. Mar thinks of paying you a visit when she will read it. He writes nicely, she added also a line for Emma in Heidelberg, which I send off. Sam reports a thunderstorm which they had. The lightening struck a casuarina tree 20 steps from their house, tearing off the bark from top to bottom Elisabeth could not any longer go on with teaching the Brahm. girls, the cook was thrown to the ground etc.

So Zaremba is buried, Frohnm. reports of it. He has also seen Ramseyer and relates how courageous he looks and how his intrepidity helped him now and then out of difficulties. He seemed to think that that the Asante require yet deeper humiliations before they are opened for the Gospel. 
Mrs Zahn, it seems, will tomorrow leave for Boll. Mr Seeger has sent a bottle of very good Spanish wine for Mr Hesse; Georg Z. had to bring it, as he had received from H the gift of a Greek N.T. Hesse went over to thank them.

Mr. Weitbr. the Pfarrer of Markgröningen was today with me, he takes a time of relaxation. I had a nice hour with him about his experiences in his congregation he seems to have some strong enemies, freemasons and similar spirits. Goodbye
 with love
 Yours HG.
