 Calw 14 Jun 74
Dear Julie

Yesterday when Marie had gone Mr Wenger came (he who was at Kaity before and lost his wife) and stays still here with Stolz and Hesse. Then came for 2 hours merely the 2 Lechler's, the girls of Salem, from Maisenbach (Krauss) on their way to Wildbad. We accompanied them to the railroad. They were nice and pleased Jette much better than the elder daughters. I then ate with Weitbr's with the 3 Missionaries and went to receive Marie, carried Karl from the Bahnhof as he was asleep. Thodo will today not commence his tasks and he has many, the visit was rather too good for him. 
That verse is from the lamentations of Jerem 3 chapt. I hope the "souls" were refreshing to somebody and the oranges _____________ too! 
Today was at Stammh, just at time as dear Deckinger was quite down, he feels no more able to bear the load. His wife was away running after George who has left his place, made debts and is gone nobody knows where. Keep this for yourself! It is only said in confidence. He is a very poor fellow that George, drinking when and where he can get it. So his Pfarrer sent him off. May our Lord keep his eye upon Him and make him to come to himself! I had preaching and Missionsstunde.

The three amuse themselves together, it seems they walked also with the Sunday school children, but got a little rain.

David writes nicely but nothing of any importance. He intended to visit Oldenburg this Sunday.

Rikele was out of tune with the Burkhdts etc but is now rosy again, sewed Mr Stolz's Knopf to his trowsers without being asked. When Jettle wanted to sew it on it was already done

 Goodbye now! Love to all
 Your HG
