 5 Juni <? 74/75>* [1874]
My dear wife

I send you Fred's which perhaps Grosmama will read to you if you find it difficult to make out. There came also a letter from Mrs Gros aus Giengen. Heinrich is now with his brother Herm in England "und schreibt recht liebe Briefe" of course it lies heavily on his mind that his father did no more live to rejoice over his return. Till Oct. she may stay in the Pfarrhaus, does not yet know whither then to turn her steps. Marie was at Schafhausen with Mrs Scheffel. She saw also the Dettingers at Ostelsheim for half an hour, they will gladly join in the conferences. Mrs Oehler's brother the Helfer <J Steudel>* at Tuttlingen is again out of his mind. Yesterday evening Theodor made a fine story! He saw his Mama returning from Schaffhausen greeted her shortly and then went on a raft, with which he floated till Hirsau from where we met him returning as we went on our walk. Of course he had not finished his tasks, and as his Mama had to join the singing class, Mr Hesse had to superintend his writing till 9 o'clock. H says he is well, but eats marvellously little. I rather think the Nadelbaeder spoil his appetite instead of sharpening it. Marie who had hardly any lessons these days has today 7 to give so she cannot write. I will therefore let this go off without waiting longer. Mr Staudenm. our Postneighbour wrote her a very angry letter to rebuke Sarle for laughing in the kitchen about his wife. Rickele was indignant about it, as she had several times rebuked Sarle for her impertinence. But on the whole all is quiet with us as I hope with you. 
Plenty love to all 3 from
 Your HG
