 Calw 3 Jun 74
My dear wife

I arrived too early at the station, had yet to wait 6 minutes before the train went off. At Liebenzell Deuschle came in who had to pass the day in caring for the child of a relation, he feels much better and thinks that also his wife is more tractable. His children (3) came to the Bahnhof to receive him in triumph. Marie opened the door for me, and so I was back again in the empty rooms.

This morning Mrs Seeger wrote me a letter to invite me to Mrs Zahn, with whom I spent 1 1/2 hours - I cannot say, very profitably. It is a sickly state of the understanding and the feelings which I fear will not pass away very quickly. Her child is getting well.

We heard from Pfarrer Mühlhaeuser at Weissenstein (where we passed yesterday) that Ludwig is still quite the same. He came however to Church on Goodfriday, a rare event, took even the Lord's supper.

Thodo has still much to do with his school tasks, so my help is sometimes welcome. I must say the teacher <Dolker>* demands a little too much homework from these youngsters.

On Saturday I shall go to Altensteig D.V. whither Hesse is to follow on Sunday morning. I hope it does not too much fatigue him. The minister of Weissenstein invited him also for a visit: He liked his bath by Schnaufer's.

May you have found every thing that you want! I was half annoyed with myself to leave you there on the streets, but hope some angels in human shape have undertaken to fill up my lack of service.

Just now (7 o'clock evening) your letter came and showed us that so far all was in order. Well may it be a move for the best! We are happy people to presuppose that in every case, also when all seems to go a little wrong. 
With love to Grandmama and Uranie
 Yours affly
 H Gundert
