<(ad 18)>* Calw 3d. Ja 74
 <In Mt Clem 24 Jan>*
My dear Children

Again a good letter from you which has rejoiced our hearts. The Lord be praised He has began the good He will continue and fulfil it, It is the holy spirit which works in you what have we more to desire, we can say after Simeon mine eyes have seen thy salvation let me go in peace. What a wonder is a conversion, the words are realising behold I make all new, You are now like the lost son returned to the father, who has been clothed got a ring all is joy, what a grace, the eldest son may also be displeased and dispise you, what is that? a good sign for you.

The devil will also come afterward Our Lord has not escaped his temptation and therefore become our high prist who can feel with us and help us. Oh dear Herman we can now speak of Christ for He is our life and must become our all. I can imagine the joy in your family the Lord having become the first it is an other things than when we are Lord without Him. 
I doubt not that my dearest Tinne with her two daughters had a happy Christmas; for when the presence of the Lord is felt all is easy. He will also help for her hands He is still the god of wanders, if not at once the words shall be realised "to him that believeth all is possibel. Dear son never think any more of the words of Jettle about faithful mother instead of dear <"lieb und treu">*. I never ment any thing by it except that Grandmama and Tante R deserved certainely more love from you than me. this was in India and told it in regard to the cares you had by our good Stutgart peopel whom I can never thank enough

With a tender kiss to each of you
 Yours affectly JG.
