+ Dr Gdt an seine Enkelin in Mt Clemens.

 Calw 20/23 April 74.
My dear Marle

Yesterday we got your letter and were very glad of it. What a joy that must be to get pretty cards. I think I would give up all whispering for such a reward; but still nicer it seems to me that you give already rewards to Papa and Mama for all their care about you. We have no Major nor other dog because they cost money: you have only to feed them, but we must also pay to Government 6 Fl for them every year and this would be a great expense; and then who knows the dog may become mad and we should have to shoot it. Rather do without dogs. In India we had more than one dog, there they were wanted to watch the Compound as we called it, Haus und Hof; and yet we had our troubles too with them. Once there came a mad dog, the little puppies with which Paul and Freddy played barked against the intruder who bit them at once, then I shut it up in a lonely room, where we shut it through the tiles. It was a real mercy that the boys were not bitten by the poor beast. The puppies had of course also to be killed. Thus I remember a long series of dogs a Dash, and a Rose and what not all! But am glad that we have no more need of them though they were really good dogs. We got them mostly from Engl. soldiers for these having no wives nor children tried each to procure some pet or others, canary birds and parroquets, also Mungoose (a sort of weasel or Ichneumon) which they occasionally made presents with to thank for my kindness done to them. Thus we got our dogs, and the mungoose too which might have kept off snakes from the house - for it does battle with them most boldly - but as it bit Mama thro' the nail very badly we let it go. - Hindoo boys play also with snakes, but this our children never tried to imitate. I do not know how many snakes I killed but in 6 months at Tellich. beginning with the week in which your Papa came into the world, I killed alone 35 in and about the house on Nettur hill. Then we had goats, sheep, cows, once a boar, often turkeys, ducks and always fowls, besides scorpions, white ants and other plagues about the house - can you now fancy how it comes that your Grandpa is somewhat tired of animal life rides no more on horseback, drives no more with bullocks, mounts no ass, but puts up with railroads abroad and with human faces at home? What became of all those beasts, we shall perhaps once hear; that is to say I know of most that they died and don't think their names will last beyond the grave. But whether there will be such animals in the new world, on the new earth, and whether they will grow much better and get more sense then, I am rather curios to know. Perhaps we shall soon know more about it. Goodbye! With hearty kiss your
 OPa.
