 Wildbad 11th June <1874>*
Dear papa

I am very sorry to have forgotten to return or acknowledged the carte from A. Many thanks for yours of the 10th I got it at 7 this morning. I do hope that dear Marie with her boys will come for dinnar when they come Suterday or Sunday we can manage very well in the house for the dinnar. there comes a post at 8 Ocl the morning, does not this correspond with yours of half past 5? it would be nice if they could be a whole day here.

I am glad that Mrs Zahn has at last gone to Boll and hope it will help her and her Mama. Mr Schülgen related that in Canstatd real cure are to be seen by Mis. Secondorf; though he himself does not trust it is God; but the hand of Mrs. S has the gift or power of magnatism.

Uranie is not less well than Mama; but to walk so far she does not like nor can she well, I thank for Da' note

I am very thankful to Jettle for her kind note and regrette to hear that Mr Hesse has been less well, Mis. Eitel was here yesterday evening, sends to you all in Calw love, if Henriette should come I am to let her know, Mrs von Rucktäshel comes now and then she is nice, Mrs. Supper sits just by G'mama so I cannot write quiet and it is true that my thoughts are not collected, I bath every two days, on the day I do it my head is so weak that I canot think, poor Mrs Supper cannot continue basing on account of palpitations she will go home and try at Canstatd,

My love please to all in the house and steinhouse, Emelie and Rickele. Today it is less hot here, it has rained in our neibourhood it seems, last night has been tolerabel, we sleep pretty well inspite of the heat. I leave one window open

Dear Jettle I beg to excuse me for not thanking her with my pen; but she knows me already bad writer bad in every thing I wish that dear Mr Hesse be soon well again love to Him and Georg.

I hope to see Saturday or Sunday dear Marie her sons and who will gladly come.

 With love yours J. G.

Love from GrM and Uranie

I shall not write till Marie comes I hear that Mis. Klugen is here I will try to see her
