 Calw 11 Jun 74
My dear wife

Today came the Burkhardts and after them Fred Müller from Stuttg. B had his wife and 3 children with him, stayed 11 1/2 - 4 o'clock. Jette made pancakes to serve the children instead of meat. He visited Lamparter, and we left the whole party at Kraushaar's before they went to the terminus. Fr M brought a sad piece of intelligence which you best keep for yourself. Zimmermann left his eldest daughter (who was never at Calw) in Switzerland, from where she returned to Stuttg whilst the parents went to Engld and Africa. Now it is discovered that she is with child since that lonely journey of hers! Josenhans wrote about it very sadly, it was but one of the many troubles which that black family has already given them. 
Fred I think will visit here on Sunday the 21st. Marie may come on Saturday after having dined, so you need not think of her. I think I mentioned in that letter which accompanied the American postcard, that she did not intend to come on Wednesday but Thursday, which w[oul]d have been today. Now Saturday is the day fixed. It rejoiced Thod today to be made the 4th in his school, and to sit next to his Heinrich Bauerle, who is the third. 
Mrs Seeger and Zahn reached Boll well and are pleased with it. Müller goes this evening farther on to Stuttg. after paying a visit to Widmann. Mrs Kern whom Jett expected to see here from Gernsbach has not arrived and does perhaps not come at all. Fred writes little. Emma had heard some of the Home Mission doings at Heidelberg, where Schmidt was presiding and they did not please her overmuch. Many talked against Sundayschools as if they hindered the regular church work. But Helfer Neeff of Stuttg could bring forward proofs that something was done in this way for the kingdom of Christ, how many of those teachers become Deaconesses or serve the Mission now! - Mr Hesse is pretty well, though with little appetite. I think Burkh's visit refreshed him a little. Mrs B. looked quite blooming and strong again. 
Now Goodbye. With love to all
 Your HG
