 <6 Juni 74 ?>*
My dear wife

I am glad you can also use the bath from time to time and hope it may not fatigue you. They charge much it seems for a dinner, perhaps because for half a year nobody eats with them. - From Amer. only the card and from Bremen the letter of Dav which I enclose. I am glad that Chevalier is so affable - from Basle I read a declaration of Pfarrer Riggenbach, why he cannot obey the new law. It is very well written and ought, accordg to my opinion, be the answer of all the ministers; but as R stands alone, he will have to go out, and then the others stand like Nagel on a wrong place, just as if they approved of the act of the state which yet they still complain of. It is a curious world! They have been accustomed at Basle to have every thing orthodox and pious, now they will have to learn quite new lessons, that the unbelievers can for a time have the power of shutting out those who care for the Church. I did not send you a letter from Mrs Joh. Müller - about dyeing 2 teppiche which Jettle will answer after she has got her answer from Mrs. Federhaff. The Stolz she writes go on well.

This evening I will go on to Altensteig whither Hesse is to follow in the morning. <(am 7t. in Altenst)>*

Thodo got the first 2 taps (Tatzen) from his new teacher, because he had clean forgotten to learn a hymn. But he learns to be more attentive. 
Rickele has hanged Lumpen over her kitchen windows that Mrs Staud. may no more look into her place of work. We wish you all three to enjoy yourselves and let cares alone, as all will come right in due time. When you hear from Fred. we shall be glad to get also a word of information Goodbye  Yours HG
