 Basel 30 Jun 74
My dear wife

Yesterday afternoon I got your letter with one from Fred. and Jettle. I thank you and Marie for all the news, went at once to Busers to give Hesse his part, which consisted however in Prof Lieberm's acknowledgmt of the fee which H had sent. He and Miss Fr, in fact all except the little B daughter were gone, but I paid my visit there, and returned just in time to hear somebody knocking at my door. This is very common as I live in Mrs Hagers room and am consulted at all hours in the day by questioners on recondite household subjects. But this time I guessed something and asked, whom I have before me? It was Rams. his wife and the little Rose. Of course I made my acquaintance with them, stole Mrs Hager's strawberries and gained Rose's affections in a high degree for when Mrs H came and brought sugar biscuits and when Inspector came and produced bonbons from his pocket, I obtained the victory. Rose whispered to me "fraises" and I stole for her more and more, when she always returned to me the stalks. Miss Scholz tells me that all the African children dislike sweet things at first. Well there we were and talked sense and nonsense, as it seems the rule in such moments. R looks very well, S端sse is his Afr. name, as he was thought on account of his beard to be the brother of famous S端ss. Mrs R very thin in the cheeks and not yet very strong, but cheerful; her teeth came off by bits in Kumase. Rose very compact and strong, dark face, talks french and Otji together. Mrs R had learned a very good German. Then to supper where I saw K端hne just arrived from London and Neuwied, very thin, but better than I had expected, coughs now and then painfully and is very deaf, which makes him sad. When better restored to strength he may mend in this regard. We had a cheerful time there. I read also part of R's journal which he kept all the time at Kumase, a wearying story of hopes arising and dashed again, varied with bits of Asante life in all its features, bloody and dreary in the extreme.

M端ller arrived soon after me, but I met him only Sunday afternoon. He was thankful for that night, lives with his father in law. - Reinhardt came also and asked after Herm. Then Wenger and Mack with many others. I shall today dine with Wurms, where the Rams. also will appear. They live with Ecklin. Sunday evening in the garden where I felt somewhat cold after the perspiration in church. Christ mentioned what an important day it was for Bale, the first man chosen as preacher, who openly denied the Christian foundations, and chosen by people, who had made it a condition only to appear in the church for the election after the sermon was closed. I dined with Dettinger and Gretillac on Sunday, who also remarked that Nagel was in a queer position, being now chosen president of the state Church! But let this suffice. I can not write more. On Friday I hope to come to Calw, I am not quite sure as yet, which way, possibly 4.22 from Horb. That would mean to leave this 6.20 in the morning. But I am not yet determined, having not seen Miss Frohnm. since my arrival.

Now goodbye With sundry kisses
 Your H
