 Hdlbg (Calw) 3 Apr 74
My dear wife

I saw Jettle at Kornth who intended to return on Saturday. Here I arrived about Seven o'clock. Fred and Frohnm. were there to receive me, on the way Emma met us after having completed her arrangemts. We drank tea and talked on a long while.

This morning I lie about in Paul's Schlafrock, church is only in the afternoon, when you perhaps go to Hirsau for Berbele's burial. Something strange happened to me. When I left Calw, I took besides the money, a paper of 50 Fl in the waistcoatpocket for any particular purpose that might occur. Here I donot find it and am nearly sure I had it near the watch on the way. But in vain we looked through all our papers. After a search of considerable dimensions I quieted the good people with the hint, that possibly I took it again out of the pocket before starting in which case the Badish 50 Fl Schein ought to lie on my pult or in the second drawer of the right side. Not that I expect it to be there, on the contrary I rather suspect I lost it here or on the way, as more improbable mishaps have occurred to me in late times, from old age I suppose - or to teach me greater punctuality. Anyhow I have now written the story - and there we leave it for the present. In your answer it is quite enough to hint at the result of the search, there is no need of alarming our people here by entering into details. What astonishes me is that I miss the paper only today, and cannot remember either having touched or missed it when I yesterday night took out the watch to wind it up. Perhaps when we have given up all thought about it, the curious bit of paper may unexpectedly make its appearance somewhere. I write this on Dav's letter found here, Emma is quite well and stuffs me with good things. Plenty love from both to all in the house. Even so from me to Marie, in Steinhaus (from which the 4 letters were duly delivered - besides that for the servant girl).

 Good bye with
 kiss from your H.



 1Bremen den 1. April 1874.
Lieber Papa,

Will nur geschwind Herm's Brief schicken, hoffe, es trifft Euch schön und lieb beisammen.

So nach Hamburg adressirtest Du, das hängt nicht nur mit Alter zusammen, sondern kommt auch sonst vor so bei uns nach Leipzig, doch merkt mans meist beim auf die Post tragen oder so; vor meiner Zeit wurde bei Steinkopf einmal ein Ballen verkehrt geschickt, das kommt dann nicht franco zurück. Aber daß Du mir doch geschrieben hast, lieber Papa, freut mich arg; ich wußte nicht, worans fehlt und war wild.

Stecke in der Remission drinnen, daher erst Freitag DV. mehr. 
Mit Grüßen allerseits und Kuß
 Dein David
