 Mardi soir <16 Jun 1874>*
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours of the 14th So you have a gread deal of visits dear Jettle will have had much troubel, and you will have had your time robbed away; but Marie told me that you had much joy to see the good peopel who had been in India of course Stolz will have related a gread deal, if he is communicating I thought that he talks little on the whole, Marie told me that Mr. Hesse specially injoyed his old friends very much. I am glad you had again a day in Stamheim for the house and the peopel.

Yesterday we had many visits Mrs. Verner from Felbach, her son in low Langbein, and tow daughters of Mrs. Mulle who came to see their mother. Mama had a letter from Theodor from Paris he relates of his journey to Bremen where he went to take back his Helene, said he saw David who looked some what shy, backward towards him. his Helene delighted to go home again. Johana is pretty well Tante Sophie not expected to live long. he with his family shall go to the bath where they were last year. Emilia G writes also to Mama, the last days they have changed logis from paterre to bel‚tage, she has had too much to do, is quite exhausted, if mama had been at home she would of course have helped as much as she could, Emma has her own work and she would not be so bold "käck" to ask her to help, while Emma wrote to her mother that she had much to do, first clean their own house and keep the children of Emilia! It is possibel that Gustave shall come next sunday to take mama home in this case we would perhaps come too; but it is nothing decided. I think Frederic should not troubel himself to come on Sunday also on account of the uncertainty of course we would not leave here before 4 afternoon. I shall still write once before it.

It is very cold here, yesterday it rained the whole day; peopel complain as if potatoes beeds were frosen, however today is some what less cold, less wind. Uranie was so trembling that she sought she was getting "la fievre tremblante", but since she is in a good warm bed, she feels better and I hope that it is but from cold.

Almost every day we see Mrs von Klugen who would be glad to see Mr Hesse. I am glad for Jettle that Rickele is again rosa.

I have just recieved yours of yesterday, with incloses from Marie and Jettle for which many thanks to both till I can do it in person, Uranie has some fever and headach from the cold I suppose I hope that it will soon pass, she shall get brause pulver this evening. The Lord is us and with you. Love from U and Mama. I wish you also some quite time love to every one of you

 With love yours J. G.

Marie and Jettle excuse me for not writing,

I need not warmer cloth I put on all I have and it is enough. I hope that Mr Hesse keeps himself worm, and is pretty well, with you all, I am going to walk a little with mama
