 1Wildbad 12th June [1874]
My dear Children <Fried>*

It is but a smal note in exchange of your good long letter for which I thank heartily. Your love to us humbles me; and I know it is grace from God that I be thereby erquickt and incouraged.

The good news about the children who come to dear Emmas Verein has given me joy, I hope with you that God in whose name you work will give His blessing. Meanwhile you have joy and labour in hope,

Dear G.mama and Uranie injoy their stay here very much.

Till yesterday it has been very hot but today it is no more nice it is really cool and windy though we had no rain here, Just now I recieve a box from Steinhouse, you may imagine the contains, I had already one yesterday from dear Emelie Schüz. Mama and Uranie have goodle in abundance. In the fine good letter from Mrs. Herman so written that I can read it perfectly well, she says that Frederic has in mind to try the Pf railway, is it possibel? dear son you would leave your good wife alone, of course we three shall be too happy to see you. We expect dear Marie to morrow, she will already have been here when you get this, as she take these lines to papa to enclose in his own These last days many peopel have come to this place specially, noblesse, while poor sick people were from the bigening, it is a sad sight to see so many invalides, apparently without seeking after God. 
Adieu my dear Children with love from Gmama Uranie and a kiss from yours 
Only think that Mama H sends even Orenges, no it is too much I had wished that no body would send any thing
