 Calw 18 Jun 74
My dear wife

Thanks for your letter. Stolz is far from communicative. Samuel f.i. was in my presence not even named. For Hesse it was a great joy. I think also it revived him somewhat the cold acts otherwise on him, he looks rather depressed. Still he went also on Tuesday evening to Helfer Grill's, was very lively and ate also without appearing afterwds to suffer from it. His George had been on Sunday at Teinach where he danced with guests from Pforzheim. In other respects G seems more diligent and pleased with his lessons, by which he certainly achieves some progress.

I hope the fever of Uranie has passed over. We wish for her especially that the last days be warmer than they still are. Hesse is now (10 o'clock) still in his bed, to keep warm.

Yesterday no visitors, quite a relief! We hear that Lydia W<eitbrecht>* is to come with 4 children and after her Conrad with family. Before this Mr Weitbr will go to Leidringen from where Mrs Schmidt will accompany him to Calw. They have also a sufficient prospect of visits, as the Macks are likewise expected sooner or later.

Neuffer paid a nice visit at Frohnmeyer's. with his father, who was born in that Pfarrhaus at Lienzingen. Miss Fr. will accompany me to Basle in the end of the week, come here I suppose a day or 2 before Saturday. 
I send you Fred's letter, as Mama will be able to read it to you. In the Steinhaus they have replaced the wooden railing by an iron one (outside the house). I read them yesterday the news from Hdlbg

The sister of Alzenberg Müller (who went to Brazil) has brought me their letter for him. She is with Michael, but will leave him as the work is too much for her and a wirthshaus not the most agreeable place.

Now Goodbye. The Lord be with you all. You remember today aunt Emma's birthday. With love
 Your HG
