 <2 Mai 1861>*
 Calw 5th April /61
My dearest Tantele

It is indeed very long I have not written to you, It is not want of thoughts about you my very dear Emma you are often in my mind and I long to see you, Tante has already said that you shall not leave Stutgart after your return so that I shall have to go there to see you.

We had some hope of seeing you after the death of Nannele; but since that I have heard that you return only in July. I understand that our brother and sister want to keep you as long as they can, so would I do were I in their stead. Please to give my sincere thanks to dear sister Johana for her kind letter to me; I do hope I shall have once the pleasure of seeing her with her dear family.

Samuel has been here a fortnight we had much joy with him, yesterday we heard, that he has also been made free by our King from the Militia, that's one care more taken by our dear Lord, He will also care for our Frederic who is to be confirmed in a few weeks.

You know that we have to quit this house in April so we have before us a fine work, cleaning this one and going in the other pretty far from this on the road to the Schafweg and Gimpelstein.

Dear Mama will kindly come to advise us a few days before we leave this and stay with us I hope till the Mission feast and Frederic's confirmation. 
I do not continue to learn German for several months already. I am truly so discouraged with it that I think it is useless to lose time about it. 
You have made several good friends there and I was rejoiced to hear that you had happy times for your soul. The old Gruner lives still and he as well as many others who remember you send you kindest regards, Many people ask still after you; but specially after dear Mama I long to see her too Maria our servant girl sends you kind regards.

I will tell Adieu with best love to our dear brother and sister, kisses to their little ones

 Yours ever affectly
 Julie Gundert.


 12 May

Ich bin schuld daß dieß so lange liegen blieb Wir hatten einen langen Auszug und Einzug. Kommen allmählig in Ordnung. Die liebe Mutter hat dabei tüchtig geholfen, was der Mühe werth war. Marie war etliche Tage in Königsfeld auf Besuch. Ich wunderte mich, zu hören, daß schon ein Plan da ist, Dich nicht aus Stuttg hinauszulassen - eine kl Ewigkeit lang - wenigstens nicht durch das westliche Thor. Aber ich glaube diesen Sachen nicht bis sie sich wirklich ereignen. Dann muß man eben sehen wie es kommt. Mit Gottes Hilfe werden wir uns doch wieder sehen, wenn ich auch nach Basel gehe und Julie nach Corcelles. Nun Adieu. In herzlicher Liebe grüßt Dich  Dein Herrmann
