 Corsier 11th Jun. 1861
Dear Papa and dearest Marie

Many thanks for yours of the 3d received yesterday, it was indeed a real joy for me to have them the more so that I had been rather ill during the night and felt somewhat heimweh. I came here on Saturday kept sunday and monday rather quiet, some friends came from here and Vevey to see me and I hope to morrow to spend the day there Mme Verre came to invite us for tea with some other friends, every where there are invitations and much love to be injoed. Yesterday Mlle Jorand had the visit of her brother from Gˆnes his wife the daughter of an English man has a uncle in India Bolarum he is an Ingenier Henderson. This Mme Jorand is a nice creature a real beauty but very delicat, He says that a great deal is done in Italy for the conversion of Catholiques and that many are brough; but among these many come for outward help only. He is "tresorier" de l'hopital protestant and seems to take an active part in the spreading of the Gospel in Italy, He is Merchant. 
I am very sorry to hear our dear Dr B is still so poorly as you say, my kind love to him and to Hanele and Catherina to the dear Weibrecht of course and other friends. The dear boys vacances are nearly at an end, and I should be there; but it is impossible. I expected to return to Corcelles on Saturday; and after all it will only be on Monday, however our return to Bale shall be DV as I said before on the 21 to be two days still with our dear sons. I do long to be in Calw for I have been since less well than I used to be, the food is different and does not agree so well with me. for instance I was obliged on Monday night to get up 12 times having a strong diarrhea, during that night I thought of returning as soon as possible and not see the people now that I feel better I think it would be a pity; but I do wish the time would be over though I have joye to see the people. If you think I should return before the 24th say please one word and I be off most joyfully. Do you leave Calw for Bale before the last days of June? I should have asked you all these questions before I left Calw and how long I should stay here. I might have guided myself accordingly.

Our dear Friends here send you much love they are most affectionate and tender.

Dearest Marie your Aunt Monnard will send you a dress as souvenir. How are the dear boys My precious Paul and David he is no more obliged to care so much that is so anstandig as in Stutgart. Dear boys I send you a tender kiss and I long to see you. I shall no more go away from home I trust 
 Adieu Your affect
 J. Gundert.
