 Calw 8ten Juni 61
My dear Mamma

Please do not forget to ask after some place for Miss Jung, of whom Mrs. Helfer spoke, she said it wd not matter even if she got no Salary, but now her mother says that it must be a place, where she gets at least a small Salary, as she has still five other children and her property has very much decreased. Last Tuesday there were more ladies in the Verein. On Wednesday 11 children. The woman in the sickhouse the sister of the one who lives with Müllers, is so ill one thinks she will die soon. On Friday Mrs Lamparter had a visit, Miss Kappler, Miss Gentner, Miss Marie Kaiser M. Weitbrecht, Mrs. Würz and I were invited. It was very nice. After the coffee was over, we read a few verses out of the Bible and sang some hymns. Today Maria bought only butter, as the eggs are still dear. This rain has done good and one hopes milk and butter will soon lower their price Mrs. Wöhrle came very kindly to look after me today. She sends also love to you. I almost forgot to tell you that on Thursday I went with Martha W. to Gültlingen to Pfarrer Schweizer. We had rain all the way, but it was very nice there, they send love to you. Mrs. S. ist still unwell, her eldest daughter has a bad foot, which causes her much pain and trouble. Mr. Schweizer was very glad to have seen Hebich in Stuttgart. - Saturday today we went to meet the boys, we walked as far as Ostelsheim where we waited for them in the sun. David asked first when you wd be coming back. They both were very happy during their Vacations. - Sunday this morning Mr Rieger held a very long but beautiful preaching about the parable of the lost Son. In the afternoon Papa had the Missionsstunde Afterward we wanted to take a walk, but there came a heavy shower. Then Papa went to Dr. Barth for vespere as the Vietor's are here. Mrs Raible came to me and asked me to write to you to see her daughter when you pass thro' Basel, she seems to be very sickly but does not write the details to her mother, so she wd be glad if you cd talk with the girls and then tell her the particulars. Miss Kappler came and asked me to join them in their children's Sunday School, as Miss Gruner has left it and Caroline Bätzner has married. I said I would, though I feel it is not quite so easy to keep it up. Marie Wöhrle and Weitbrecht also came to see me, all ask after you. - There is again life in the house since the Boys have come, to morrow I shall cook rice and curry for them. Probably their Vacations will be longer, than it was settled in the beginning, as there is some building going on in their School. Maria sends love to you. - Today we heard that dear Br. Convert is very ill with a heartdisease and will be obliged to come home, as well as the Hunzikers! -

Goodbye dear Mamma, take an affectionate kiss from your loving daughter  Marie
