 Calw 25th November /61
My dear sons

I should beg pardon for being so long without writing you; but I know that dear papa is very diligent in giving you all the news about us. 
Accept my thanks for your dear letters which give me much joy, the Lord be praised for His kindness and faithfulness towards you. Sunday as I was reading the XI of the Hebrews, faith which made that great cloud <Wolke>1 of witnesses to overcome and to wait for the fulfilment of the promises appeared to me so great so wonderful. Faith though often as it were eclipsed by doubts and humain reason and wisdom will at last fight and overcome. it is that seed of God in us which keeps us from sin and overcomes all. By Gods grace you have recieved that precious faith, see that in all things you act according to that faith and be faithful in smal things. How precious is that blessed word by which we are born again. Oh for more hunger and thirst after it, how great and strong could we be by feeding more on that word of life small, weak in our selves but strong in Him. 
One day dear Herman you spoke of the blessedness of the Lord supper as if the blood and flesh of our Lord had fed you I was <glad>1 of it. but it should be so every day for us His holy word is to be our food and I cannot think that the Lord ment only the Lord supper when He said in John VI <Ich glaube nicht daß Joh 6. bes. auf das Abendmahl geht. Luther glaubt es auch nicht.>1 except you eat my flesh and drink my blood you have no life in you. His word abiding <bleiben>* in us keeps us in communion with Him. the word has been made flesh and in that word in the fountain of life from which I have to draw life. If my word abide in you saith Jesus ask all what ye will it schall be done. we should feel a want of that blessed word for our souls, as <wie>* we feel hunger after food for our bodies. Not only we get life by it but it works in us as described in Heb. IV. 12. II Timothy III 16.17. We first drink it as babes I Peter II 2. and then by it we become exercised to discern and perfect man for god's work.

The death of Mrs Meogling has taken me by surprise. His coming our Lord's coming may perhaps also take us such; may we be able to say daily comme Lord come. By Miss Buser we have sent a parcel to you containing a few things given by the children of Calw for those of Calicut kindly give it to Mr Fritz with the one you will already have recieved before. 
It is cold at Calw our windows are frozen the mornings; as often as the weather permits we take a walk with papa after dinnar, Mrs Würz accompanys us some times.

Frederic goes on pretty well. Paul has been for some days somewhat unrully <unbändig>*; but is right again, only he appears to me to have but very little ears for the morning and evening prayers which might be so useful to him, he is taken up with his lessons or dreams David is more awake; but the same boy wants a strong hand over him.

Now Adieu my very dear sons
 Your Mama Julie Gundert
