 Corcelles 7th June 1861
Dear Papa

It seems to me as if I had left Calw a long while ago, I shall DV. leave this tomorrow for Vevey where I shall stay 7 or 9 days, The time passes so quickly that till now I have scarsly been sitting quiet for one hour with my sisters. Yesterday I saw Mr de Pourtales with his family He had just arrived from a journey through Bƒle. I paid a visit to Nagel he was not at home, hope to see him afterward, saw the Converts who were full of joy at the good news they had from India; but yesterday came his sister saying they had recieved very bad news, for some time he had complained of opression, and once in the midle of a preaching he had such an attack of it that he has been obliged to leave the church. Several Docters have agreed to say that it is a deasiese of the heart, he must at once go to the hills and likely afterwards to Europe. Poor Calicut as if the Lord would remove all Wat has life from it

I had a nice time with Mr and Mrs Monsel; they are much tried with a jung girl who is ill since four years she is covered with Abces! He does a goodeal for the Lord, Have you seen the journal which is written by Mr. Nagel monthly? Imagine that Mr Grellet has a meeting once a month that is speaks once a month where Chable used to speak, the people have asked him to do it, It may help towards his own conversion. Almost every where Ministers held meatings besides preachings People speak still of Hebich with love many have been benefitted Also Mrs Coulon where he was she is a fine soul I met her with Mrs Nagel, She reminds me of the old Mrs Reile With Uranie I paid a visit to Lucie who is still nice she expects her parents next month, they come perhaps as long as I am here; however I think of leaving this the 21 be in Bale the suterday and Sunday and Monday in Calw I would have left sooner; but my sisters will not. Frederic has enough of learning french I think however he must thanks for your letter and the one of Marie I send her and to the söhnele kisses love to all also to M. love from my sisters and all the friends I shall be glad to find Calw again how is D Bardt love to him
 Yours Julie Gundert
