 Tübingen den 4ten Nov. 61
My dearest Mamma

On Friday we left you, in Herrenberg we greeted Mr Weiß and then went on to Tübingen, where we arrived about 4 o'clock. We were received very heartily by the dear Oehler's, who are very kind to us. On Saturday I went to visit old Mrs. Moegling and her daughter Martha, also the Denner's. In the evening several students came after Supper, also Gottlieb Weitbrecht. Yesterday morning we went to church, where Mr Heerman's Brother preached. After church we went to old Mrs. Steudel, my first grandmother's most intimate friend, a very hearty old lady, four of her daughters were also at home. After dinner we took a walk on a mountain, from where we had a most beautiful view. At five we heard a lecture of Professor Palmer on the 1st chapter of the Apocalipse, it was truly a very fine blessed meeting. Dear aunt Emma who was at Balingen returned this morning to Stuttgart, to morrow we also hope to go there with Ernst and Gustav, who will then come from Balingen. Mr Sandreczky was here too, he asked after you and sends you love. - Yesterday we had beautiful weather, but today rain. I hope you are well and happy alone, love to the Boys. Dear Mrs. Oehler and her two daughters send love to you. With a kiss to you dear mother and much love to my 2 Marie W. 
 Your affectionate daughter Marie - Pardon haste -



1I only hasten to tell you that I reached Balingen with aunt etc before 7 o'clock, and came to Ernst, when he was eating his supper on the only chair of his house. He sat with us in the inn till late. It was then settled that the marriage is to proceed, but the bride is to remain at Stuttg till we see about Victor's illness. So their marriage excursion will come to nothing. On Sunday the investiture; there was first a good sermon of Ernst - on the subject of the great supper. He spoke of the host, his servants and the guests. Then we heard a fine exhortation of the Dean; after which E. read his sketch of a biography, very dry, I thought, and silent on the main point. From the pulpit, however, he had very energetically promised that he would preach Christ and Him crucified and had found his only hope in Him. Only he has not told us, how or when he found Him. 
Dean Buhrer spoke then some words of blessing, wishing that the faith of father and grandfather may be found in him: I added a few words on the warfare for which he had been engaged, and how he may succeed to save both himself and his hearers. Then we dined together at the inn (Gustav had joined us, having made his way from Stuttg during the night), took a walk to see the country which is beautiful, saw Dean Klemm and his wife for a quarter of an hour, and returned by extrapost to Tübingen. I could not prevail on Chevalier to let me pay my place in the coach. This morning the 3 left by railroad. We shall follow them Tuesday eveng when Ernst and Gustav will have joined us from Balingen. Thursday I hope to come with the nightcoach, so you will leave the house open for us, retiring however with the rest of the household. For we shall want nothing but the bed. Farewell to all.

 Your HG

Please give my love to the dear Dr and communicate the news. 