 5 Jun 61
My dear wife

I am glad to hear just now that you arrived safely at C. One week is already over, the rest will also pass before we are aware of it. I send this by Bale and beg the boys to address it to Fred who can then read what his brothers write, and may do afterwards what he can to let it reach you. I dare say he has some Heimweh, but it is good for him, to get amongst strange faces and loosen a little the apronstrings by which he has hitherto been led. Today Paul will have rejoined David at Stuttg and on Saturday I expect them back. You write as if you had got nothing from me. But you ought to have had at least one letter: I trust they arrive all in time. - Dr B had yesterday a poor day, having been obliged in the night to sit up for 3 hours or so on account of oppression of the chest. But now things are again better. He expects the Vietor's from Bremen on Saturday. We eat very little as there are no boys to show us how to set about it. But are never the less in good trim and the work proceeds apace. I hear nothing for some time from Mögling's. On Sunday afternoon I preached for Mr R who had gone to Stuttg. afterwds was at the Würz, where we had a very lively conversation for 3 hours or more with a virtuous Lady who looks rather clever, but mixes morals and grace in a very wonderful manner. In the Verein there were more Ladies than last time. With Ernst I have a rather close correspdce which looks to me very hopeful. It seems God is working in his heart beyond what we ever thought of beforehand. How glad I would be, if before he is appointed to an office he has experienced the pardon of sins in the blood of Jesus! Pray also for him, he wants it. - Julius has after all been invited to go to Grünthal, on Monday he came in for an hour or two from Zavelst and then returned for his journey. He has behaved himself well at Z. and the boys of Gros wait anxiously for the return of all our travellers. Mrs. Decan I told you perhaps wanted to see you before she went to Wildbad. There are many people who ask after your news but I cannot recount them. Today I have again eingeheizt so cold it was. Farewell for the present and may your path may be cleared before you every day!
 Yours HG.
