 Calw 3d June 1861
My dear mother

I wonder where you are to day my dear Mamma and Frederic. - Now I must tell you all about the last week, that you know how I spent my time. On Wednesday morng Anna Kaiser had her lessons she now always comes to me and we have prayer afterward she is very open and tells me all that troubles her, or when she has done or spoken wrong she is very sorry of it. So in some visit she said something as though she was pleased with the doings and ways of the world. Afterward she wept over it and told me how she had done ill. I like her very much and I am glad for her that her Sister is coming in a few weeks, who is a fine girl very true, I think it will do her good. - In the afternoon I was in the hospital, Schauber's girl is still there though much better, the sister of that woman in Müller's house is very ill. Also Nane Zahn the cripple suffers much the others are rather better. Rickele the 1/2 Blind comes often in the afternoon with her knitting she and Maria send love to you. Wednesday afternoon there were 13 girls in the Verein. On Tuesday the three boys left for Stuttgart Paul has since written a very nice letter he is very happy in Lauffen it seems. Julius is to day going to his parents, for three days he has been at Zavelstein. Every morning I go into the kitchen, I have learned to make pancakes, riceboullie, curry and Spinat. On Saturday afternoon Anna Kaiser was here and drank coffee with me. In the evening Dr. Barth arrived pretty well. I saw the poor old Lachenmaier, who is angry at the owners of the house, in which she lives, they seem to be very unkind to her and her daughter who has come back from Wildbad much better and stronger. On Sunday Papa preached in the afternoon Acts II,43-47. Afterward we took a walk and then went to the Würz's for tea, there we had a very fine evening indeed. There's a very nice lady Miss Gentner with Mrs Würz, she wishes to see you very much. - Papa will probably write you about the other lady, who knows so much about morals, tho' she reads the word of God very diligently - Today I had Conrad W. who takes lessons every day as long as I am alone at least. We cook again a riceboullie! - Love to Freddy and a kiss to you from Your affectionate loving child  Marie
