 Calw 19th June 1861
My dear Mamma

I am glad to hear you are well and hope you have much joy with all your old friends at Vevey and Rolle. Did you ask after Marie Roulet in Peseux? Is she again governess somewhere? I wonder whether you will get a place for Miss Jung. When you come to Basel, will you make it known to Louise Raible then she will come to you to the Missionhouse Her mother wishes you so much to see her and talk with her. Last week we had great expenditure. We got 3 meß of wood which five men did cut. So with paying and feeding the men much money went. We all helped two days and got very tired. The widow Degenhardt I saw on Wednesday she had to go to Nagold on Friday with the guardian of the child, of which she was very much afraid. She complained and wept much, nobody helps her now in her distress, she says. - On Wednesday evening there came Mr and Mrs Schweizer from Gültlingen, they had come to speak with the Doctor on account of her and her eldest daughter's feet. I wish you could have been here to see them, they are such nice people. On Saturday Julius came he looked not well at all, on Sunday he was still less well, on Monday he remained in bed and now he has got the "rougeoles". We put him into the guests room, where the Boys are not allowed to enter, so we hope they will not catch the sickness. Do not be troubled about it, it is of no consequence, I hope. - -

On Monday was the minister's conference at Stammheim, In the morning Mrs. Deckinger sent a note to invite you too to come. Of course Papa went alone, but in the evg David and I went a good part of the way to meet him. Yesterday there were three weddings at Calw, also the one of Miss Wagner, Mrs. Würz's sister who has already departed for Frankfurt. - Our Maria was also invited to the wedding of that Catholik Burghardt with the widow Feldweg, she went at 11 1/2 and returned in the evg at 6 o'clock, very much pleased. Conrad comes very regularly every day. His Sisters and the Wöhrles send love to you. Tomorrow the Boys are to go to School again. George Deckinger shall dine at Helfer's till Julius is well again. I hope dear Frederic has learned French and will continue to talk French with me for I am forgetting it more and more. But Conrad will bring this note to Papa, so I make haste to conclude. The dear Boys send kisses to you and Fred and so does your affectionate girl
 Marie
