 1Calw 7th October 1861
My very dear Sons,

Accept my sincere thanks for your good wishes for me Our dear Lord who has been so exceedingly good to me hitherto, will fulfil them according to His holy will. Dr Barth came back on Saterday, he is as ever suffring from headach Mr Sandreszky spent one day with us waiting for the arrival of Dr. B. even went to meet him as far as Pforzheim with papa who went farther to the Mission feast at Gernsbach.

Have you heard that Mr Lamparter-Wöhrle has a daughter he is much more joyful since.

There is just now a great deal of sickness in Calw almost all the children have the measels Mrs Wagner's little boy is not expected to live which is very hard as they have but two boys and 5 girls! In Stammhein all the four of Herr Pfarrer are ill the little Matilda dangerously. Our dear little ones are in Stutgart I have nearly heimweh after them. Apropos I dreamd that you were with us eating Zwetschgen cakes I wish I could send you one as it is now the season,

Saturday as I was dusting papa's books I thought much after you who <Hermann in der Vacanz>* did put them in order especially Herman, they have kept pretty well in order since that time. Your last letter dear Herman was pretty short I trust you are well and continue to feed on the word of life with some apetite. To day the 8th Mr. Sanderszky is to eat carry and rice with us, he goes to morrow to Kornthal. We will go this evening to meet our dear little fellows who are to return from St. Frederic is as ever; no joy to learn English or French often cross and angry at some one or other in the house. Adieu my dear sons, there are still many monthes till your vacances the time appears to me longer than formerly

Whenever you sie Mrs Ekling give her my love and best wishes for dear Mrs Hoch and the new born son.

Kind regards to dear frau Pfarrer Hager also to dear David and the other black brethren Adieu beloved Sons

19 Oct. Die Knaben trafen wir, wo der Althengst. Fußweg in die Chaussee mündet. Sie waren bis Böbl gefahren und sehr munter. Mit Victor Mann ist große Freundschaft geschlossen. Adolph sei ein prächtiger Onkel, hilft zu Schießen und Feuerwerk, er möge gerne wilde Knaben Percy der mit feuerwerkte war ganz nach seinem Geschmack, umso weniger nach Tante E's, der er mit Schwärmern etc heiß machte. Gust rede gar nichts. Sie waren auch in Canst und Kornthal. David heute sehr froh über sein Geschenk, Zumpt etc. Er wird sich auch des Briefs freuen, und antworten. Ernst Helfer in Baling will heute mit Julie besuchen.
