 Calw 29th Sept 1861
My beloved Sister Emmale

I fancy to see you surounded with flowers and presents, but above all pressed from every side with tender love. May the love of Him who never changes be present with you every where during this year and so constraining you that all other things may appear very small compared to the love of Him who has given His life for you. Oh my dearest I wish to you and to meself a real fulfilment of the prayer of Paul expressed in Ephesians 2,17.18.19 and III,16 till 19th verse Yea sent fulness of God in us that we may be quite emptied of self. May God realise it in you and in me to His praise and Glory Amen

You remember the sick Amalia she has been burried on the kings birthday, she longed much to be released from the body to be with Christ. 
Why in the world do you with dear Tante thank again for the love you received in Calw? I know the contrary, by us people - who visit us must put up with many small unpleasant occurences. Now with love to you dearest and to your circle
 Yours ever affectly
 J. Gundert

Give please my sincere thanks to dear Mama for her kind letter and good wishes may God fulfil them for me and family.

Please tell also dear Tante with my thanks and love that my husband has been displeased with me for having not requested from her to buy some what as remembrance from us for dear Mama's birthday. I thought indeed she would do it, Now tell her also that I am vexed with myself for having told her that we wanted a small carpetbag for my husband told me that she made him a present of it. It is truly too much from dear Tante all she does for us and children, express her please my sincere gratitude; tell her also that the Herrings have not only been tasteful to the palate but have filled the house with a delicious odour.

Tell her too please that Mari's Gown should be addressed to papa in Dr Barth's house where it shall be kept till Marie's birthday.

I think the cloth or the patterns sent to us rather fine for our boys; if there was such cloth as the piece I join here I would prefere it; but if it is not cheaper than one has it usually I would rather wait till the next spring to buy it.

Accept all of you my thanks for the trouble you have with us. 

1Der Einschluß, ein Müsterchen, soll durch die Knaben folgen, die wohl morgen Abend (Dienstag) bei euch einkehren werden. Indessen besten Glückwunsch und Gruß an Alle
 Dein H.
