 Corcelles first June <61>*
Dear Papa

Yesterday Friday we came to this place, found the two sisters well. I have just written to Marie Monnard to assertain when I can find her. 
I think of going to Morow to Mont Miral to see Lucy. My sisters comme along, Mlle Janrenaud has already paid me a visit, she has heard from the Converts that their son is not well, he does not write himself, but let his wife to do it, his mother was much grieved that he did not even add a line to it. She says that Convert is very nervous and has much opression or Asmath. Dear Frederic was much pleased in Bƒle and would have been glad to stay there rather than to come here where he has "heimweh". But I am sure that in Bale too he could not have feast every day as it was for two days by kindness of Mr Moiret who was very kind to Frederic. I suppose I shall go to Vevey next Friday or Saturday.

How are you all what is doing my Paul he is at Lauffen. David is he reconciled to be alone? I hope dear Papa that the great fatigue you had on Monday has passed without hurting your health. I long to hear how you are and shall be glad to be in Calw again. In the railway I met Mr Perrin whom you have seen he had just sent his wife to Canstate, saw als Mr Peti Pierre, I trust to see soon Mr. Monsel. Uranie wanted to have Francois with family here during my stay; but it is much better that I see him in Geneve if he does not come to Vevey or Rolle.

Telle Marie that I have see Madame Jaquet with children, he was in the Viniardes. he has two boys in his school who speak German; but Frederic is not fond of them. If it was fine weather he woul amuse himself to find out the different Mountains in the Alpes; but it rains I must now say Adieu 
With love to dear Marie to dear David Salamms to Maria How is D. Bardh? 
Love to all
 yours Julie Gundert

The boys will send you this. Herman has repeated he would keep his promise to you, but as long he is not right with the Lord he will find it hard Adieu to all.

