 Calw 19 June 61
My dear wife!

How long the letters are in reaching by the round about ways in which they run. I hope you are better now, have accomplished the chief part of the excursion, seen our Fran‡ois and get ready for Bale, where this I hope will reach you. David is most anxious to hear about you, always goes with me to Barth's on Wednesday morng to see at the earliest hour what there may be for him or for me. 13th and 14th we had the wood business, I helped also, the servt very much out of temper! 15th Julius came, infected with the measles, already the 16th I put them to bed in the stranger's room. 17th I went to Stammh where we had an interesting meeting. Georg is not to come to us till the measles are out of the house. On the whole all goes well, though I am glad that the vacation is at last over, for David was not enough occupied. We have a good Indian heat at times. How I perspired on the way to Stammh at 10 forenoon! The next time Ostelsheim is to be the place. I doubt if I shall go, at least in the middle of the day. - Barth has still bad nights. From Mögl we hear nothing. At Lauffen they heard that he sleeps a great deal. That may do him good and allay his irritation. Nothing from Pauline. Nor do I know, how it is with Emma - has she arrived at Stuttg or is she only to come? People say she had at Barmen a marriage offer and declined. But we know nothing whatever.

Now farewell My time is up for this time. I hope to be yet a week with you before I set out D.V. for Bale. Love to all friends
 Your HG.
