Mrs Gundert, Cannanore

 Mang 22 Aug <56>*
My dear wife

Your welcome letter arrived yesterday noon, when I was teaching the Cat.boys singing for on account of Mrs Bös. there is no school for 2 days. Not a bad thing I thought. Now I am very glad you went through so well. For I was troubled about you the 1st night. - Heb ought to enquire why he got not that letter on Sunday, seeing it was sent off Friday morning. As he had said he would go to Talip last wednesday I did not suspect his absence that way though I supposed it possible he might have gone to Anjerc. - I am very glad of what you say concerning David. So you see your distress must help on his development. - Bates goes this evening he walks to Honore tho' I and others offered ponies. I visited him yet this morning and he confessed a little to his want of love towards our Savior. Gomp prayed yesterday for him, as if he was not yet quite decided. May the Lord keep him. - This morning Mrs Bös. gave birth to a very stout boy all well, but the Dr had to help. Mrs Hoch and Bühr had been in attendance for 36 hours. I am half glad you escaped this sort of service, as we have sad recollections which harrass one at such times

Mrs Smith's (Rieks*) cards came here as well as Mrs Fennell's (to you). - The brethren who came yesterday evening for the meeting were much interested in your experiences on the road and send Christian love. Give my love to all in the house and in the Church. May God give you there a happy time. Irion writes that in Cal. a miscarriage was imminent. Now farewell. The Lord be your strength and support
 Your HGdt

