Mrs Gundert, Cannanore

 Mang 26 Aug <56>*
My dear wife

This morning there was no time for writing but I sent a Selam thro' Diez which may have reached you. If all went as they had intended you may by this time have already the dear D<iez>*'s with you. Yesterday came Loth sent by Degg instead of Christian. May the Lord keep him and glorify himself in the youth. - Bates passed the Sunday at Mulky. - Boswell wrote nicely about the plan which Yg sent from the hills. But he like Gomp. thinks himself too poor for such work. I fear that those who have less grace take it more easy - NB. Hoch told me, he thinks Haller has an eye on M.W. He seems to ask a good deal about her, and declared at all events he would not buy a cat in the bag, that is get a wife from Europe. - This morning (Wednesday) Mrs Bühr's letter was also communicated to me Thanks for it. - I asked Brett about Charlie. If one sees no spot on her, he thinks it decidedly wrong to separate her from the others, as the dejection following such a separation must operate to her disadvantage even with regard to bodily health. - I shall be glad if you see more of the Rolstons and Brigrs. - As for me I shall be absent a very short time. Would you like to come with me on Friday night by boat? I think it by far preferable. But mark after Friday this week you must not send me any letters. - HK had again a little feverishness: but it seems over. With the Bösing's all is well Pfl reached Hoobly in good health and found all well

Now the Lord be with you all.
 Yours HGdt

