 Mangalore 25th Sept 1856
 <erh 18 Novbr>*

Beloved sons

Your last letters as ever have given us joy and we praise God for his loving kindness and faithfulness towards you, Glory to the Captain of our Salvation for He is the Author and finisher of our faith. Look to Him, learn to wait upon Him and you shall walk well and have the victory If the word of God is your chief study and the food of your soul you shall be wise and shall always have an answer for those who come nigh. Oh dear sons you are perhaps tired with me for telling you always the same story; but I find it so needy for myself so strengthening being the health of the soul I must again speak of it. This morning in reading the 9 of Luke I was struck in observing how many times it was repeated and Jesus retired to pray. I was glad to see in your last that you now have settled to pray often together, and when ever the devil comes to put obstacles in the way (which he will most surely do) oppose and resist him. Our strength and life lies in the way we pray. The devil is very cunning in making us cross, displeased with each other then of course we cannot pray then we have to cut and crucify the old fellow hang him, as says Mr Hebich, then we get the victory. We cannot get it except we die to this self no real joy and happiness but in death. Oh dear sons what an unspeakable joy is it to us to know you are the Lords. Remember also poor Marie that she may also be brought to Him who alone can make her happy. Today is our dear Mother's birthday we remember her specially and wish her many blessings, above all much joy and peace by the Holy Ghost, joy also in seeing all her children coming to the Lord. How is dear Emma loves she also Jesus who loves her tenderly? Give my love to all our dear relations and friends specially to aunt Emma and Jette's mama and to all Papa told you that I had gone to Cherical for a few weeks, I was glad to see the dear people there, but the place is not healthy and cool like this beautiful Balmatta What would be that if one day we were to see you both here? It is not impossible. Well we look to our dear redeemer. We are his

Adieu very dear sons in Him who has loved us we live and die.  Your affectionate Mother
 Julie Gundert

