F & Paul Gundert, Kinderhaus1

 Mangalore 8th November <1856.>*
My very dear boys. <(in Basel)>*

I am not going to write you a long letter but again a short one as usual. It is but a few days papa wrote to you I think! You have not as yet told us any thing of the dear Weigles. did you recognize them at once? How was the poor dear little Joseph. We were much grieved to hear that he has the hooping cough. Are there many others who have it too? I am glad you had it in India for it is much more easy to bear it here than at home. The portrait of those dear Charles and Joseph sent from England is very little like them and we hope a better one will come from Bale. Do they tell you some stories about Johny Crewe and Artchy Kerr who went home with them? Is Joseph still walking about with his hands on his back very gravely? Next time you write you must tell us some thing of them. David is now often speaking of his going to you he already fancies to see his little bed between you both and believes that you will keep him well from Robbers of whom he is very much afraid. he often asks in going to bed "Are there also robbers in Bale"? He cannot understand why his papa is not going along with him to Europe, as I told him that only sick people are going he said "well there is a fruit in our garden which makes ill if one eat of it let papa eat and then he will be allowed to come with me". Now sweet dear sons in sending you all our kisses, and wishes that you may be good children I remain
 Your affectionate
 Mama J. Gundert

1Plenty love und Küsse von eurem patre ad modum amante sed parum otioso. 
