 1Mangalore, 19th Novr 1856
 <erh 2 Jan. 57>*

My dear sons.

In the middle of this month, We were rejoiced by news from you both, We praise God for His faithfulness towards you. I am glad that you are going to a meeting, where your souls may be profitted, try to become acquainted with the most faithful Christians and chiefly with those, who would reprove or exhort you, for it is a blessed thing to be acquainted with those who have the mind of the Lord and in whom is unfrigned love. Dear Herrmann has very little time I hear, being so much employed in the shop, and more so perhaps when we come near the feasts, well may the Lord give you much of the spirit of prayer, that even in running about for your work, your heart may be lifted up, having continually the presence of the Lord. 
It is so very hot here and oppressive at present that I feel almost unable to do any thing, while you have very cool at home. David is exceedingly pleased with the things you have sent him, he plays every day with them, he is rather a selfwilled little fellow, and it will be good for him to go to school, though it will be hard for us to part from this lively, quick, and noisy fellow, sometime we would like to tell him to be quiet; but the feeling, that soon, we shall regret to have no noise any more, makes us to bear it rather willingly. Since this letter has been begun, I have been running away more than telve times, at least for business. And now my very dear sons I will say adieu. Kindly give my love to all around you, and receive a kiss from your beloved Mama
 Julie Gundert2

3Your portraits I have a great pleasure to look at

Your's dear Herrmann shews some years older than you are, it looks indeed very different from the first we had <1855 "genußsüchtig">*. It is a right and proper face, through which God will I hope one day show forth His praise, and bring many sinners to their Saviour. you know what is that to have been dead in sin and trespasses; but now you have been quickened and made alive to God, you have been brought out of darkness, to His marvellous light, to shew forth His praise. May you have grace indeed to do it. The smaller you are in your own eyes, the more the Lord can do through you. 
Practically we learn with much difficulty the words of our blessed Lord, which we know by the head and repeat often "Except ye abide in me, ye can do nothing." In the same measure as we die to self, we know the power of this truth.

My dear Samuel. In your last letter you seem to understand much of the seventh of Romans, I hope you will soon have grace to jump to the eightth and experience the power and victory described in it. As long as one is under the law, which is the state described in the seventh, One cannot know much of the blessed state to be led, guided, and made perfect by grace, for in this new covenant not only our mind is following the Spirit; but we feel also the power to yield our body and members as described in the twelvth, first verse, as well as Romans 5th 17. v. 21. and 6. ch. 14.20.22. - By living faith in the Lord Jesus, we not only become washed and clean in His blood of all sins; but we receive also grace and strength, to labour with Him in destroying deeds of darkness in us and around us and to establish his kingdom.

Now once more I must say Adieu. With love to all.

