 Mang 20 Jan 56

My dear wife

Dear Gompertz will bring this to you. He likes to greet the Chir. Compd in passing by - but a visit depends on the time, which very likely is at night. We had just now the Lord's supper together and were blessed. Dear Carr Gomp. Brett Sweeney with the Qr Master and wife and a great assembly. Heb. preached and Elieser interpreted. - I now send different letters from different quarters, let dear Pauline or Mglg separate them and do the needful. There is a paper on which Weigle in 1835 wrote 2 little verses, which the Lord has since fulfilled in His mercy. They are out of a Greek N.T. which Gottfd gave in 38 to Metz, and Metz to B端hrer.

Weih mich zum Dienst an deinem Wort
Gib meiner Predigt deine Kraft
Sei du des Schwachen Halt und Hort
Halt Wort und Wandel unerschlafft.
O Heiland mach mein s端ndig Herz
Durch deines Blutes Wellen rein,
Richt meine Sinnen himmelwaerts
Lass mich mit dir vers端hnet seyn.

I hope you learn yet more to rejoice over our boys' pictures. It will not do to mourn too often over our own neglect and want of earnest love, but we may pray for better things as long and as often as we list. - Today I thought you might have the Owen before Cannanore May God have had mercy on you all especially on one poor <(Greiner)>* soul that is to go home in this vessel. What are we without His grace. - Yesterday evening Kies called for repentance, Generalbusse, as he called it - he gave some hits to the right and the left, M端ller <Joh?>* rebuked the light tone of conversation prevailing at Mang. and the way of spending money, HK gave some admonition about being more brotherly with native brethren, which Kies seemed not to like very well, however the whole discussion was not without benefit. In his sermon of today Heb. called most earnestly to repentance by looking to the sufferings and shameful death of our Lord. Happily, there is balm for us!
 Love to all
 Yours HG
