 Chiracal 17th Jan 1856

Dear papa

Many thanks for your tow kind letters received yesterday as I was at Cannanore. It was indeed a very great joy to see our dear boys <daguerotype>* I kept looking at them for a very long time and arrived at home looking with your magnifying glass and with the one of Moegling which is much larger then yours I was so taken up with it and almost faired they should speak and laugh with me. but when again the thought came to me that I had not loved them nor cared for them a I should I sadly put down the portrait. Asked God to pardon all my foolishness and infinite misdeeds and mistakes which I have all my life done with our children: for I do wonder that God should have given me some I so ungratful and wicked*. Well all is mercy pure merci. I am sorry you had so much trouble in going to M.<ulki?>* You will have by this time recieved the letter of dear Mrs Young which I have unsewred with dear Pauline. Here is one just recieved from Mrs Stevens 
I would have written yesterday; but found no time in Cannanore being the day of pucking for Carl and Joseph and Mrs Albrecht having her own notion about it; every sort put separatly and tied with a string and the contain of the paquet written on it as if one could not see that stockings are stockings or coats coats. Moeg said it was so done that the things might not quarrel with each others, for the sheets might by and by say they are gowns and so on. Mrs W. and myself David of coarse paid a visit to Capt Kerr and his children who are almost quite well even Tim. We went also to Mrs Gumperts who as usual was very great sufferer. she received Mrs W in her bedroom while I had a talk with the young lady in the parlour. I expected more from her as we were alone she might have opened her mind a little while she did but answer my questions very shortly still with affection.

We are waiting for Mrs Irion who has not yet come nor have we heard any thing about her mouvements Diez who came along yesterday evening to Chiracal was to send a cooly there this morning. They will like us rejoice of their boys Daguerrotypes they are less changed then our boys I think Paul was in a very good humour Frederic looks a good deal better than he did here. Give my love to dear Sophie I am sorry to hear of his being so poorly.

Here all is as usual all were pleased to see our boys. Maria from Anjercandy has been here two days. I will not take up your time with more Adieu for this time. You have very often news from Moeg. and Diez so I need not wite more; Grace and peace be with you. I am happy on the Lord. We are all well  Yours J. Gundert

Christian love to dear Major Carr. Gumperts etc All the girls send Salam to you to dear Hebich and some to Mr. Richter.

