1Revd. Dr. Gundert

 Mang 23 Aug 56
My dear wife

It is evening and I have to preach tomorrow so will just begin a few lines to you - with the news that Carr will apply for leave with the Brigr and D. V. may accompany me on Monday of the 1st Sept week. C. was much rejoiced by dear Heb's invitation. He got at the same time a letter from dear Yg. which he showed, and from which we can learn that his troubles on account of that Asylum business are blessed to him. He would have wished to be present at Jacob's ordination, but God's way is best. - I saw Dr Brett this evening for an hour and tried to show him that he looked too little to Jesus for complete pardon and peace in his blood, and allowed Satan to trouble him with an ideal measure of sanctification; he would not quite allow it, but took it well when I told him he had really to do with the Devil in this matter, much more than in the other which he calls his vileness. That to others one could not speak thus, but to him this is the only way. - So then Shimoga house is sold for 1500, just sent to me. West also sends (at last) his salary papers. The amount I hope to bring with me. Carr thinks from what he sees that Hodson has come* rather with a desire to be a good man than a Christian. They like what they saw of Mrs Mayne, who looks they say like a sensible and quiet woman. But Mrs Hods (who is his cousin) has already to object to the mutton and many things in India which are not to her taste. But as I have seen nothing of the Ladies myself I must not pretend to furnish you with a description of them.

David I hope finds his old plants again I wonder how they are and if the friendship with Gideon and Paully is renewed.

The Lord give you today a happy Sunday
 Your HG

