 Mangalore 25th Oct 1856
 <erh. 1. December>*

My dear sons. <Herm und Sam>*

Again we were rejoiced by good news of you all. Thanks to God who has kept you till this day in his ways amidst all the temptations and devices of the world and of the devil who like a roaring lion seeks whom he may make to fall. Thanks to God that we are kept by his power by faith. What a great grace is that to be able to believe savingly. Oh dear boys we feel at rest about you he who has commenced the good work in you will finish it to his praise and glory. Be only small to your own eyes cleaving to Christ who is your life then all will go on well. Commit all your cares to him He will lead you the way you have to go. With many hearty thanks dear Herman for the verses you have so kindly sent for my birthday I am rejoiced to see you so quiet about your future: the Lord in whom you trust and whose will you desire to do will guide you. - Not deeper into the business of the shop; but in his own treasures and fulness and make you by and by a faithful witness of his love Where? I do not know nor do I wish to set my mind on the hope that it may be in India; but one thing is sure that you must become a Witness to Him to whom you were given at your birth and who has since dealt so wonderfully with you. Your good voice is to proclaim the love of Him who has given his life for you. A preacher of the cross you must become I fully believe; but when and where I leave it to God. One thing you must do already now to your neighbours and all you meet speak of Jesus; make up your mind that for Christ sake you shall be hated and despised; but be not afraid be faithful you have a good Captain He has suffered and conquered and with Him we shall have the victory.

Kindly give to our dear Mother my sincere thanks for all what she has sent the Mantilles are very nice and the rest too, thanks to dear Jette too for the manchettes. David was extreemely joyful of your presents accept also our thanks for it all those who did help. Almost I would have said Adieu without saying a word of your dear portraits the one of dear Samuel is just like the other we had before; but yours dear Herman is most pleasing, well truly to see your face since you are in Christ is quite different. We feel very thankful to have them all, though I would like still the one of our dear Mother. But now I must say Adieu in Him our life, with much love to all

 yours affectionate Mother
 Julie Gundert

