 1Cherikel 8th Jany 1856.

My very dear boys.

Though we had not the pleasure of hearing directly from you last month, still we had the joy to hear by Dr. Ostertag that you were quite well, and that all the children during an examination which has taken place in the kinderhouse were most happy and lively, every one ready to give an answer, by another friend from Basel I heard that on Miss Culman's birthday all the children had a feast and were so happy that there only wish was that the feast might be prolonged though the whole year, the good things which were then placed on the table seems to have been the chief cause of their joy, what, Is it so? are you so fond of good things. well I dare say it was, however I hope that by and by your joy will be excited by a different food than the one which is only for the body.

From Stuttgart I heard also another story about you, rather a grievous one, what do you think it is? There one has heard the little Gunderts in the kinderhaus give more trouble than the other children, what does your conscience tell you about this? Has perhaps my sweet Etty carried beyond the seas an ill humour so that when he is proved he gets angry, makes faces, and speak grievous words, which shew that his little heart will not submit. Tell me dear sweet Freddy in your next, in what your conscience reproaches you. And has perhaps also my sweet Paul not left on the shores of India, a peculiar will of his own, like a little boy of whom I heard a little anecdote saying, "I will also have my own will" And when he was told to learn he would say, not now, and if he was forced to it he would all in learning play with anything or cry from pride that he was not allowed to do what he liked. What do you say of this my very dear Paul. Is something like this, or somewhat else? in the way with you? Tell me that frankly in your next please. And now what shall I tell you of us all, this morning early we went to Cannanore, David was still asleep when I left the house; but as soon as we were out of the compound, I heard him crying bitterly, mama! mama! we went to Cannanore to say farewell to Major and Mrs Young who are going to the Nilgherry hills on account of his health which is failing. In coming back Mr Moegling who had just come from the Coorg country accompanied us, he spoke of the little Gabriel, whom you will recollect, he was here three years ago, he remembers you very well, he would have liked to come to see you, - Johnny, Crew, and Archy Kerr are just now here, waiting to embark on the Owen Glendover, Today a year ago you left us to go on board that very ship. How many mercies since that has not the dear Lord given to you and to us. Dear Archy has the hooping cough and is very thin. David was not allowed to come near them on account of the cough, Johnny and Crew have grown up very much, but are very pale and thin. I am glad for them they are going to Europe.

Now you will be glad to hear that Papa Mama David and the Missies are all well, the school children also, those of them who remember you send you plenty salaams. Now with many kisses and plenty love to yourself, Christian love to your dear aunt Culman.
 Your affectionate Mama
 Julie Gundert.


1Euer Vater grüßt und sagt er vergesse den 8ten Januar seiner Lebtage nicht. Wißt ihr noch wie es in Hebich's bandy früh nach Cannanur gieng, und dann ins Boot und dann aufs Schiff? Und dann dem Col. Brown die Kanonenschüsse. Eben jetzt kommt er gesund nach Cann zurück. Seine Frau und der Knabe blieben in England. Ihr wißt den Knaben der über die Sessel wegsprang wie sonst keiner?

