 Balmatta 25th March <1856>*

My very dear boys

This is my second letter to you from this place. You remember I dare say this house where Paul cried a good deal for his Mama <und Friederich half ihm>1 David begins to like this house specially since I have some girls at school after dinner, he begins already to talk Tulu and Canarese. I wish I could pick it up as easily as he does, he takes pleasure to read with the Catechists boys for he fancys to be their teacher in English. 
How are my boys I wonder! good or bad? I heard some thing a few days ago which grieved me much about my Paul, perhaps he will tell me himself what is that which grieved his dear aunt and all the people who heard him. I hope that he has profited by the admonition kindly given him by our dear Inspector Josenhans has he also asked God pardon? and to all the people who were offended?

I have no more Miss Will to write you for me, She is with Mrs Hoch helping her in the school. I see her often the evening as they all come for a walk, Paul Hoch reminds me much of my sweet Paul he is very much like you. Marck is a very good boy and Theophile too.

My sweet Frederic will be glad to hear that I have seen his Mam who asked much after him, her Gottlob is a fine boy he liked to play with David David also liked Herrmanly Amman who is a very fine boy, he did not go on so well with Susana for she has like him a strong will of her own; they have now all gone so David has no companion. He reads much quite alone without knowing All that he reads exactly; but he does not like writing nor counting! 
The girls of dear Chiracal write us often letters and usually ask after you in sending you plenty salamms. Yette the sister of Charlott is here with us. You will soon see the dear little Weigles; you will I hope be very kind to them and never tease them specially poor sick Joseph! What testimony can your dear aunt give of you? and what do you say of yourselves? May God make you truly good in giving you a new heart! do you also ask for it? Now my very precious sons With much love to your dear Aunts and plenty thanks  Kisses to you both yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

