 Mangalore 2d July. 1856.

My dear Frederick and Paul.

I write a few lines to you; because Mama has no time just now, as she is engaged also in writing letters. - To day I am spending the day at Balmattha. it is much cooler here than in the lower Mission house. - We have now the rainy season. do you remember still how you used to like to run in the rain and make little tanks and plant little trees. David also likes to go in the rain very much and sometimes he is obliged to have 4 pairs of trowsers a day. I hope you are learning well and giving joy to your teachers. I was very glad to see your handwriting last month, and wish that you would sometimes write a few lines to me, Dear Freddy when you write to me ask Paul if he still remembers me, and tell me in your letter what answer he gives. You can write in German to me for I like it. We are all quite well here thank God. - I hope you are all well and happy, and learning well. Give my love also to Carl and Joseph Weigle who will now be with you, and perhaps Carl will tell you something of Cherikel if you ask him, he often came into our room and played with us.

Mama has a pretty little Albino child <(called Laxmi aber jetzt Lydia)>1 with her, four years old, she has no father and no mother, and she is very affectionate towards Mama. - David sends you plenty kisses.

With much love to you both, I remain Yours affectly
 Margaret Will.

1Und herzlich grüßt euch auch der Vater und Mama und Herr Capt Boswell der aber fürchtet ihr werdet ihn vergessen haben. Er hat euch nicht vergessen und betet für euch.

