 Balmatta 2d July 1856
 <erh 14 August 56>*
My very dear sons

It is again with much joy and thanks to the Lord that we have heard of you all by the joyful and refreshing letter of our dear Herman. Praise and Glory to God for his infinite mercies and love to him. So dear son you are led out of your ownself to Him who will make of you a new creature, one of his beloved in whom He has pleasure. The Lord will abide with him who is of a broken heart and of a contrite spirit with him who trembles at His word; Now that you have tasted how gracious the Lord is and how mean and vile you are you will daily more and more sigh inwardly and cry I must decrease that He may increase and be fully Lord in me. I thank God to have given you grace to go humbly to Mr Staudt. you see He has blessed this step be of good cheer. You have began to overcome and by His Grace you shall over come all; You know that those blessed ones in heaven sing Glory to God and to the Lamb by whose word and blood they have overcome. You have now a good desire to fight the good fight well remember that you cannot do it but by the Word and the blood, let these two things word and blood be very precious to you think of their power; those saints glorified already know their value and they teach us how we are to become fully conquerors. ho! dear boys what a great favour has God done to you in bringing you to Him before you have entered too far in the world and service of the devil; which would make much more dufficult for you to follow afterward, besides what a privilege is that to serve the Lord in your youth.

I rejoice greatly that you have also dear Herrman joined the meeting of those young men who pray together it will be for you an unspeakable profit, to lead you on and to preserve you from the world; for by this step you say adieu to the world who will dispise you and let you follow your Lord whom they hate in you. I think dear boys you must be in want of cash to pay the postage of letters, tell a word to papa in your next We have some thing ready for you plenty Kisses to dear Mama tante sister Emma brothers to all plenty love
 yours afftly J Gundert

