<Fräulein Henriette Enßlin, Büchsenstrasse 36, Stuttgart>1 Franco* 
 2Mangalore 26th Novr. 56.
My very dear Jette

Only by a few lines, I come to thank you for your good long letter. You will not be offended, at my writing you English this time. As Miss Will is just here, she can write quicker than me and I have but a few minutes. I am glad to hear, you are again enjoying, your good friends at Stuttgart, I truly pity you to have been for such a long time, without any Christian friends, or any one to speak about what is most precious to us. However I hope and pray, that this time of exile may have been blessed for some one, in that family. It is indeed a difficult thing to attack people who are so overselfrighteous, how difficult for them to be convinced, of the wickedness of their hearts, and of their hatred to God, hatred which is perhaps greater, than even of other sinners, well, we will hope, that the Lord will give you a reward for labouring among such a people. How did your mother bear the separation?

I hope you found our sweet sons improved, their letters are truly refreshing to us, and I hope the Lord will one day make both of them faithful preachers of His gospel. I am glad for Adolph's sake, that he is going to our brother Theodor, for I hope, that there he may become a decided Christian, which might be more difficult in Stuttgart.

In your next give us news of our dear sister Emma; does she begin to love the Lord? and Gustav how is he? Tell us also something of Tante Emma, We rejoice to hear that our dear mother, is so nice and faithful, in what the Lord committeth to her. Does Marie write to you sometimes? And what does she write? I hope the correspondance of her brothers might be blessed for her soul, her last letter to us, pleased us more than usually, however my sister, who sees her very often, does not seem to think, that there is any beginning of grace in her, I am glad for the dear child, that she has my sister so near, to shew her some kindness and love, especially as long as my brother Frederick's wife is there, with whom she talks English, well, a few years longer, we hope we shall get the dear child with us, if the Lord spare us so long.

In one or two days, we expect here dear sister Moegling, he comes purposely to see the Governor of Madras, who is to be here for a few days. I shall be glad to see her. We are thank God, all well here, and enjoy many tender mercies of our Lord. Oh for a thankful heart and faithfulness to serve Him. Now dear Jette I must say Adieu.

With true love to yourself to your dear mother and to all our people. We have good news, I am thankful to say, from our dear boys and from Miss Culman who is pleased with them, they seem to be very affectionate and obedient to her. A few weeks more and our David shall also go please God, to join them. he, dear boy, will make a great void here, however it must be, and we must look for Him who knows how to comfort one.

 Your truly affectionate
 Julie Gundert1
