 Balmatta 19th July 1856
 <erh 15 Sep.>*
My very dear Son

I hope my dear Herman will not be offended with me for writing in English; for I still think that he will soon prefer this language to the French for the use of it by and by.

Your letters have given much joy. We have much cause to praise the Lord for his faithfulness toward you. Is it not dear Herman that his service is sweeter and far better than the one of the world and of its prince, it is more difficult, but we have a good Captain under whose banner victory is certain. By his great mercies I can speak of his faithfulness and of his tender love. Since 32 years that He has began to reveal His grace to me of what long sufferings and patience have I not been the object. How tenderly has He led me and kept me when I was ready to run away from Him. I have experienced so much of his fatherly care and unspeakable grace and mercies that I feel ashamed when doubts rise in me, for I have begun to understand and believe that we are kept by faith by the power of God.

Tell us dear sons how you stand and feel regarding the pure milk of the word. Do you indeed as babes drink it and learn to feed upon it. Make this study your chief object, you cannot become real men in Christ with but having your delight in his word and having it abiding in you! We were pleased and rejoiced of your meeting with the Inspector both of you. It is a good thing for you dear Herman to become acquainted with many faithful children of God they are a great help to you against the world and temptations. When the world sees that you have cast your lot with the company of God's people, they will no more entice you: but despise you and leave you; rejoice then for it is the portion of our Lord and of his true followers Labour also you all by prayers for the dear Marie that she may be brought to the foot of the cross. Be not troubled if you are not able as yet to weep for sin by and by it will come. I have for many years followed Jesus without feeling my sins; it is often the case with young people who have not plunged deep in the mire of the world, Be of good cheer. You are the brothers and children of the Lord He will keep you till the end Plenty love to all a round you and kisses from your affectionate mother
 Julie Gundert

I hope that you write often to Marie!

