<Madras Aux[iliar]y Bible Soc.>*

 <30/31 Mai 56>*
My dear Sir1

To your favor of the 28th May (which was forwarded to me from Cann) I hasten to give at once a full reply. I ought perhaps first to have consulted my brethren in Malabar, but you may depend on the facts being as I state them, whatever the inclinations of the brethren may be.

1.) We Basel Missionaries have undertaken a new translation of the Malayalam Scriptures, when we found (during the years 1849-51) that there was no prospect of our joining in the Revision labors of the brethren in the South Mal. country. We have now the N.T. finished and nearly the whole of it lithographed, the expense being borne by the Basle Bible Society. 
2. We would no doubt gladly unite with the Miss[ionar]y brethren in Travancore to procure a revised Edition of the Mal. Scriptures. But our circumstances have of late changed so much that we cannot see whom to depute for the work. For 2 of our old hands (F Müller of Tell and J Huber of Cal.) left last year for Europe, and I have been - temporarily I trust, transferred to the Canara Mission, so that for the present our Malabar Missionaries can hardly engage in any extra labor.

3. I have not the least doubt that the Malayalim Bible can be adapted equally for the use of the Northern and Southern population. For the litterature of the heathen in both parts is the same, and the dialectic differences are not greater than those existing f.i. between Tamulians of Madras and Pandians.
1An den Praeses der Station Mangalore -

Bitte gefl Vorkehrungen treffen zu lassen, daß die Voranschlaege zur Verwilligungstabelle für 1856/57 - vor dem 15ten Juny ausgefertigt werden.  G Pfleiderer

