 Chiracal 30th Aug 1856

My very dear sons Frederic and Paul G.

You see that I write you again from Cherical place well known to you. I am also more reminded of you here than at Mangalore. The bedroom where we did sleep together that very large bed on which the morning you came to play with me and David, is still here in the same place. As I slept on it with David in the absence of dear Mrs Diez, I thought of my sweet boys who are now in Bale so well cared for. How good has been God to give you so many kind people to care for you and love you. Such a good Mama as Aunt C. 
How do you like the fresh milk you are allowed to get from the cow early the morning my precious Frederic? I hope it does good for your cough? Did you remember Carl and Joseph Weigle? I hope you love them much and are very kind to them! Soon our David will have to go it will be as hard for us as for him to part from each others; He likes still Cherical better than Mangalore, the garden has a great attraction for him all the plantes his papa and yourselves had planted are often in a day visited, and he plants himself a good many things hoping that he will see them grown up as yours do, for now all the trees are indeed very fine; there was last year two very large Chaka <Jackfruits>1 and of a good sort they say, the Breadfruit tree very large and had plenty fruit a short time ago, The Custard Apples were saluted with joy by David who does not give them time to ripen before pulling them down. The Girls have learnt to swim in the tank; as there is very much rain this year the tank is always overflowing and the girls almost every <time>1 when they have finished their work go to swim. The whole compound is almost covered with paddy field. The girls help to prepare the ground. There are much less girls than formerly specially big ones many have married.

Mrs Diez has been very ill therefore I came to help her while she went for a change of air to Tellicherry. I was glad to see by the letter of dear Frederic that he has been put forward at school because he learns pretty well. I hope you pray to God to help you to learn. You must pray for every thing, also for your cough dear Frederic, and you Paul that you may fight against your idleness, and learn well. Now my sweet boys David and myself send you many Kisses
 Your Mama
 Julie Gundert

