 Mangalore 26th Dec 1856
 <erh 7 Febr 1857 über Basel>*

Dear sons. Herman and Samuel

Though I have but little mind to write this day I will nevertheless say a few words; for next time will be worse than at present; as it will just be the time of parting from dear David, Next month D.V. we go to Cannanore about the 5th to bring the dear boy there from where he is to embark in the Seringapatam which is coming from Bombay. He is now to our joy some what prepared to leave us more than he would have been 12 months ago. He is now well acquainted with the children of the dear Buhrers who are to take him along. Now and then he only says: but why is not my papa or you coming along? He rejoices in the prospect that he shall see you, I also am glad that at last D.V. you shall have an opportunity of seeing them all and Marie too. We by the spirit shall be with you waiting for the revoir which shall not be marred by the feeling of a parting again Tell David to sing you that pretty hymn by which he often does me good. "Oh that will be joyful joyful when we meet to part no more." He sings also often Such a world as this is surly not worth that one should shed a tear for it. <Sie ists nicht werth / so eine Welt wie diese / daß man ihr eine Thräne eine Thräne weint.>1

Well he has been a great joy to us the dear boy and to part is not a small matter. Look above, is the crying of the heart; for from there only can real consolations be imparted. Yea the dear Lord Jesus has done wonderfully for us hither to. We will trust in Him and give Him this last one; He has already given us two back to us - you dear boys whom He has made partakers of his kingdom with us: this unspeakable grace to have brought you out of darkness to his marvellous light Oh that is worth giving every thing to Him who has made you such. Remember always why you have been brought out of darkness. That you may show forth his praise. there are some Christians who have no liking for this and keep for themselves the knowledge they have of the light but it is not the will of God that we be silent. We have to speak of Him and be his witnesses, if we do not like this we have to fear. He has not been ashamed of us to call us and make us his brothers he has hang on the accused tree, and has been made sin for us that we may be all righteousness unto God. Shall we then if we believe this be as those who are still in darkness or give way to them in any thing? Consider what differance there is between light and darkness, and we are the children of the light and as such we must walk and become fools to the world. Be not ashamed to confess your Lord though it should be with some mistakes: He, whom you preach will make all right. Let the devil and the world be angry at you it is for your Lord's sake and he will take care for you. The chief reproach I have on my mind is to have been so unfaithful so often ashamed of Him, so slow to confess Him. May you have more grace and walk so that you may have a good conscience before all having spoken of your Lord to all. In your next dear Herman tell me whether you would rather have me writing French? David will bring you some little remembrances of us which we have much pleasure to pack just now. I trust dear Mama will like her little present, too. You ask whether I have some one to write for me? Now and then Miss Will does it for me. You perhaps remember her, she came to us while you were still here we called her Misi or Margaret, she was then 8 or 9 years old some what dark being born of a native woman, the father a European, She lives now with Mrs. Hoch and helps her in her school; but she comes to us often as she would to parents; for she has no one any more; but us.

We send love to all our dear parents, brothers sisters aunts, uncles, cousins etc. And hope they had all a good Christmas, wishing them a happy new year. Yea the real happy one which is the peace of God having received forgiveness of their sins through the blood of Christ, This knowledge only can give the true peace which passes all understanding. This peace may you have abundantly let it keep your hearts and mind in Christ

With love
 Your Mother J. Gundert

