 1Balmattha Mangalore 1st June /56
 <erhalt. 20 Juli>*
My very dear Sons.

I will now answer the dear Samuel's letter of the 25th March. It was indeed very bad of me not to tell you any thing of Balmattha. We all left Cherikel, that is to say (Papa, Mama, David, Miss Will (who just now has taken up the pen for me) on the 14th of February and reached here on the 18th by Pattamar (large boat.) If the wind had been good we might have come in one day; but as it was contrary we had to be so long, which was rather tedious. David only did not feel seasick and enjoyed the trip very much; went on eating the whole day, the breakfast was scarcely over, that he asked for the dinner and so on, we had taken with us some watermelons with which he quenched his thirst, after eating the ripe part of it, he gave the green part to the Arabichi Cows, which we brought along with us, poor things were very seasick too, and had so little room that they could not lie down, they also gave us very little milk. David went on saying how many days will we stay at Mangalore, when shall we go back, he still asks now when we will go back, Cherikel is very dear to him because of his Mimi whom he loves dearly, when he heard that she would no more be called Miss Blandford; but Mrs Diez: <he said>2 why not Mr Diez be called Blandford? - We are living in one house with Mr Kaundinya, the Brahmin whom you will remember he went home with us, we live in the small Balmattha a very fine house, though we have not much room we are very comfortable. Herrman has two rooms, the Catechist boys two, and we four, we take our meals together on the verandah. I have charge of three little girls the last one who came is an Albino child 4 years old. You would like to see her, she is much fairer than any European child, she has flaxen hair, red eyes turning continually, they are very weak, she knows four native languages. her father was a gentleman who died without acknowledging her, the mother a native woman died soon after her birth. You ask the distance between this and Cherikel, it is 30 and some hours, altogether 87 English miles. Miss Will who came with us from Cherikel is now living with Mrs Hoch and helps us in the school, She usually spends part of the Sundays and one day in the week with us. - We have now the monsoon and it is very strong, the other day there was a storm which pulled down our porch. Many trees were also broken by the roots, we feel it here more than at Cherikel, being on a hill. -

I regret indeed that Marie could not be longer with you, than for a few hours. I am very anxious to hear about her. I thought we would hear by this mail; but we had nothing - you ask whether I have more work here than at Cherikel I have much less, what occupies me a good deal just now is the study of a new language, without which I can do but little among the women. I am very thankful to dear Mama and Aunt for the Mantilles and caps they have kindly made for me. Dear aunt did ask about the measure of our pillows, but they are of every description, and they want to be renewed the leather has got now rather dirty for being used some years. if dear Aunt will kindly send us some linen pillowcases, I shall make pillows according to them, the kind of leather I use for them is not very expensive. 
But now dear sons, I like to hear you talking in your letters about your souls, there is nothing greater or dearer to me than to hear the Lord is working in you, I have often asked you how you felt regarding the word of God, have you thirst and hunger after it, do you gradually learn, how to feed upon it, we can be no good Christians as long as we do not feed and grow by the word of God if dear Herrman could see the beauty and riches of that holy word, he would soon feel and acknowledge that all other things are dung compared to it, my prayer to God for you both, is that you may delight in that Holy word, that your eyes may be opened to behold the wonderful things of 1it: that you may feel and experience for your own hearts how that precious and holy word teacheth, correcteth, reprouves, and makes a man fit for good works according to Timothy II. 3d Chapter 16.17 ver Read also those Epistles addressed to young men Search dilligently all the scripture and let your faith be well established in it

Now my dear sons May the peace of God be with you and all those who love Him and seek Him in your midst.

Much love to you all: Mother Aunts brothers sister cousins etc  Your affectionate Mother
 Julie Gundert

