+ Mangal 13 Mai 1856.

My dear Samele!

Plenty thanks for yours of the 27th March. I am glad you had a happy Passion week. At that time I prayed a good deal for my boys that they might be absorbed in a history that saved them. In that death and that life! For there is healing in it for our great wants. - a death to our old fellow which we can never kill and bury sufficiently, and a life to the new man that is created in God's likeness. Enter only well into the accounts of those transactions, it ought to be not merely as if we were present there, but as if the thing was done to us - the evil deed of sinners by ourselves and the world, the powerfull deed of resurrection by the outstreched arm of our father. That a Christian is to long for reward is also true. Peter asked: what shall we get for this? and the Lord did not rebuke him for the question, but said: so much here in this world (hundred fold - with persecution) and so much in the world to come. And he that loves God's words is thereby stirred up to run after the promise. -

Cann. is from Mang. 89 engl miles, by boat you may get down within 12 hours if the wind is very good, but I have also ridden it in 4 days or 5 days, and been born over the distance by Manjil (Tragbahre zum Liegen) within 24 hours. - Send only what you can get together in the shape of Daguerrotypes Photographs etc. You demand the like of us. This is hardly fair, for we are not in a place for these things. Mr Richter indeed made photographs but he had used up his acids when we came in Febr, so that only my figure was taken on my previous visit in January. Now he is gone to Mercara, no more to return. And I must wait for another photographer to have Mama and David made. But depend upon it, if I can it shall be done. Now tell me also once what you have of our representations - mine, Mama's, Mary's? When and where made? Have you the daguerrotype of Lyons, Mama and myself, where of a copy is with the Ostertags? I never could learn if it reached Stuttgart. - David is indeed a funny fellow. Just now he spoke to his Mama, who being occupied did not at once give ear to him: Then he exclaimed pathetically: What a poor boy I am! I have no mother, I am a widow! - When he sees the sea and comes near it, he affects to be very much frightened with its greatness and can say "My heart is broken"! or: "how strong the sea is" - To his mother he said the other day: what a women you are! you will never mend! - Es wird freilich hart gehen ihn herzugeben. Was aber sein muß, muß sein! Gewiß ihr habts gut gehabt. Ich glaube aber auch daß die 2 im Kinderhaus uns nicht mehr vermissen. Bei den Eltern aber freilich dauert das Vermissen fort und sie könnens durch Gnade auch tragen weil Verheißungen im Hintergrund stehen. - Herr Stokes war kein Missionar, sondern ein Collector d.h. soviel als eine Kreisregierung, oder wie ein Minister des Innern in Württ oder Baden. Das heißt die höchste Obrigkeit (nicht das höchste Gericht) über 1 - 1_1/2 Millionen Menschen. Er war <zuletzt in Madras> aber auch auch ein Missionar, denn er diente dem Herrn Jesu in seinen Gliedern, den Großen und Kleinen welche sich an das Haupt halten. Herr Walker war oberster Richter (zuletzt im Teluguland Nellore, über so viel Leute. Die haben dann 2333 Rup. per Monat (zu 18 Batzen) Jetzt müssen sie mit 10,000 Rup. des Jahrs sich "kümmerlich" durchschlagen - tanne heißt in mal "Ja" oder "ebenso" Ma heißt "nicht" tanni oder tannir heißt "frisch Wasser"

We are much amused with your English style. You have sometimes excellently thought sentences expressed in a thourough German way. But we can always translate them easily, and will not find fault with it. Hope at least you are not displeased with our laughs and criticisms Mr Josenhans has done very well to exhort you to wait an other year or nine months. For things change often wonderfully within such a space of time and we must learn to know in our daily experiences the hand of God educating us. Do you ever write a journal? Do you pray together with Herm? Have you even tried? Can you speak together of the one thing needful and do you warn each other of besetting or favorite sins? This is something very useful if one can get one bold enough to speak out freely. May God grant it to you both. With plenty love from Mama and David also Kaundinya "das Brahmin"  Euer Vater

