 Mangalore 19th April 56
 <erh 3 Juni.>*

My very dear sons

I trust my dear Herman will not be angry with me for writing to you both in English, as I have rather little time just now before the post going off. I expected always to receive your letters of Februar before writing this; but they are still in the way from Cannanore where they will have been addressed. Marie is with you by this time for a visit, I hope you will have been able to do her good both of you. Yesterday our dear Herman was 17 years it is the first birthday of his life in Christ; but what a grace that he knows what is that to be born again this birth which enables one to enter in to the Kingdome of God; he has felt it and can a Child be born and not grow afterward? So now we look forward with hope in God for that growth in the knowledge of Him who has loved you dear son. You may easily imagine how anxiously we look for news from you to hear and observe how you stand both in the Lord. Hide nothing from us we know what are temptations and backslidings <ich lese: backsliding - Zurückweichen, Rückfall, Abfall>* We know the long patience and long sufferings of our God with us and are able to understand you in all the low and high moments you may have to go through. The joys and sorrows you find daily in your way to heaven we know too. Our high priest and advocate who knows how to succur the tempted ones is we trust very precious and dear to you.

What a great grace is that, that you both and we meet together before Him with one mind. The knowledge that our dear Herman meets with us there too has removed from my heart a very heavy burden! I hope you pray often together! You know a promise is made to the two or three who meet to pray in the name of our Lord, their requests shall be granted. The devil will try to hinder and stop your praying together; for he knows well that in this consists your strength and victory; therefore do not give him way; pray force your selves to it you shall soon find of what wonderful help is that ladder which connect you to heaven. Tomorrow we have the Holy Lord's supper, usually once a month. The English Gentlemen who are converted here join the native congregation for this feast so the english is translated into Tulu at the same time. Now very dear sons wishing you joy and peace with plenty love to dear Mama Tantes, brothers, sisters, cousins etc I remain
 yours affectionate mother
 J. Gundert

David is not quite well he has boils and is fevrish from the heat which is pretty much felt just now. Still a few weeks and we shall have rain to the great joy of many but especially of papa

