 19 Tuesday early

Just now comes Carr's orderly with this note about his servant, I go down at once hence the short note


1My dear Gundert.

Boaz or Chumatomby as we call him is I think passing away - he does not understand what is said to him, but asks only to be let alone, I asked Daniel (catechist) to see him - none of the Roman people will go near him. I dont ask you to come, as for him I do not think he would know what you say. but if you do come in the name of the Lord, it may be for good.
 Yours affectly
 G Carr


 <18/19 Aug 1856>*
2My dear wife

Carr came yesterday and said, he had made a mistake: that he absented himself on account of his vileness etc but felt afterwards that thus he only cuts himself off from us. With the Dr <Brett(?)>* it was the same story though none of them knew of the other. As for Bates I shall see him soon and hope then to hear. The strange thing was that none even went to Hoch's preaching, quite a Devil's trick. The poor Dr wanted however to justify it. The heart knows its own burthen, and words like that. I found out, that he had got the answer, the Lady's liking <(1 Korb von Miss Anderson)>* was not that way. But he pretended to be little occupied with this story. 
Now the Lord have mercy on us all Lydia asked me yesterday evening, if I had come back from Cannanur, and if you had returned with me. She looked happy. - For 24 hours (Sunday <17.>* and Mond <18>*) we had no rain just to permit of your reaching Chir. May the Lord have been with you  yours HGdt

