 Mang 25 Aug <56>*

My dear wife

Yesterday Sunday Hodsons and Maynes for the first time in Church before me. Don't know if they listened. As we left Church your letter came to hand. I see you stick to the half week plan: but hope you are not offended with my writing daily. - Carr will not accompany me, but go a little later as he must stay for the muster on the 1st of the month, he will I think be some days longer at Cann. than we. My idea is that we return on Friday evening (by boat to Cavay if you like it) and arrive Saturday evening at Mang. 
I am glad you are pleased with the people and hope they may all improve unreasonably. I heard from dear Diez who hoped to return to Chiracal to morrow, so give him my love and I hope to write soon. My Europe letters I sent to him at Tellich, and the Mercury extracts to Calic. which will reach him later. For letters seem to travel slowly indeed along the coast. But now farewell I have enough to do - Herm. felt again some cold yesterday and therefore lies on Sopha etc.

May grace be with you and bless your stay, I feel that Ps. 63,8 would be the right thing, our soul cleaving to him, and his right hand in return holding us fast. Then we should be very happy even in the howling wilderness, much more in our happy position. Greet Sebast from me, and may the Lord heal his wife. I wonder if she lives inwardly! Please look also a little at Mina, that we may have somewhat to answer when asked about her. Though I confess my hopes are not great for her!

Richter writes with greatest assurance to Plebst that his sins are pardoned and he is a brother. May it be true!
 With love to all
 Affly Yours HG

