 1Mangalore 20 Nov 1856
2My very dear sons.

You have given us a very great joy, with your two last letters. You are very diligent dear Frederick to write two letters at once. I am glad to hear, that you like school and are learning diligently; but above all I am rejoiced to hear that you love your dear aunts, and like to please them in being obedient. Papa and myself we are so thankful to hear such good news from you, and our hope and prayer is that by and by you will also love the Lord Jesus, and be obedient to him.

You are a happy child dear Frederick to have a loving aunt, when you be once able to comprehend the love of the Lord Jesus to your own soul, you will then follow Him, and even be more happy than at present. Some one has told me, that you are already keeping playthings for David, when he comes home. it is very kind of you, poor fellow he is rather selfish, and does not like to keep anything for any one; but for himself, I am sorry to say, however I hope he will learn better when he comes to Basle, he is not idle to learn; but he likes to do it in his own way, and likes to be his own master, he is very fond of gardening with his papa, he imitates him wonderfully in cutting branches and breaking stones in mending the road. Can you read yourselves the english letters we send you? Which are your best friends at school? tell me, I mean in the Kinderhouse I am glad that Hermanle Amman will go with David, he is a fine boy, and I hope they will remain good friends. What do you hear from Marie and your brothers at Stuttgart? they will soon come to see you after David has come to Basle, that will be a great joy, to meet each other, will it not? I would like to be witness of that joy; but the joy of meeting in heaven will be a much greater joy, and none of us shall miss it I hope. Now my precious Frederick receive a tender kiss from your Mama
 Julie Gundert3

