 <2 Sept 56>*

1My sweet and dear boys <Fr and Paul>*

Your last letters have given us much joy. We like so very much to hear from you and see your hand writing. Dear Frederic specially seems to go on well and learn with pleasure we like also to hear that you pray every day. God will help you to learn well if you ask Him and if my Paul asks Him to take away all idleness He will also do it. Then the dear Paul will like to learn, to work and run fast after his brother. Do you remember the pincushions you made me for un souvenir. I have them on my table with pins and like much to see them. David often asks "how could my brothers make these pincushions I would like to make one too" but poor boy he is too playful to be brought to the needle. He likes to learn, now he speaks a great deal about the ship and asks whether the sea is strong enough to bear so many people in it with the luggage. Now and then he fears and says I cannot go to Europe or at least my papa must come along. He is becoming a good friend of Samuel Buhrer which pleases me much for he shall feel less the separation having his friend for companion on board. He is fond of reading english; but not German he says it is too hard to learn it at least to read; writing goes on pretty well! I am glad to hear dear Miss Culman got for you things which you like with the money we had sent for you. If you are good children we shall send more and your dear aunt will buy again what she thinks right for you. David is glad to hear you have Gardens and he hopes to get a right in your own. He is rather a fearful boy at night he is full of fears and usually jumps in my bed saying I can't stay alone in my bed (though his own touches mine) I am afraid oh mama let me come please. As he was asking how it would be in Bale I told him that I thought he would have his bed between you both as I hear brothers are by each others, he was then comforted. I am glad you had the hooping cough in India for it is better to have it here than in Europe. I hope also that soon my precious Frederic's cough will pass Now Adieu my beloved sons Give my kind love to your dear Aunts and to the children your companions specially to the dear Weigles 
