Rev. H. Gundert, Ottacamund, care of Mrs. Buhler, paid

 <23 July>1 <54>*
Dear papy

Thanks for two letters received on Friday one from Coimbatur and the other from Cunnur. The weather is now very fine rather hot sun shines the whole day at night David is wet of perspiration even without clothes. We are thanks God all well except the blind Elisabeth who besides her legs paining very much is deaf. Our neighbour still distressed, the poor woman is wuithout her sensess near her confinement it appears, she shows her pains by standing up suddenly and lifting up her hands, a child of 5 years is also sensless after having suffered for some days of the Cholera, they still say they will become Christians; but they ask for some help for they have nothing to eat. many people are distressed at this time the rice is very dear. the wheat is cheaper some people make cangi with it. Our old grass cutter is also sick with diarrhya his people came to day Saterday to ask for medecine. The poor woman has just been delivered of a dead child she is still sensless. I should think according the prayers and expounding of the word of Sebastian that he knows and has experienced more of the forgiveness of sin and rightousness of Christ than our J<acob>* Whenever he hears me speaking with people at our house he comes to see whether he can help and I like to hear him to speak to people At noon as a pollian was walking in our compound he was bitten by a snake of a bad kind mandili Nani cut the place on the foot did put the medecine he drunk* some too of the little blettle I hope he is doing well the pain has nearly gone.

Sunday I just return from Cannanore where I found your letter for which thanks. I have been very much greeved to see two letters from the Hills regarding the Commity either negleht of the missionaries what a shame and disgrace that missionaries can have given such an impression of our commity, their murmurs are not only against the Com. but against God. What unbelief to think a child of God died for want of a horse. how many times had such walk been made before with out hurt I am glad you are on the spot to repair with God's grace such injury to our Com. and to God. (even go so far in one of those letter as to say that for this cause there is not much blessing on the labours of the Bale missionnaires because they must care so much for their temporal wants. What a cruelty to the Com - and to God 
Monday Dear papa you will have heard that the baptizem is to be on sunday John and his wife seem to repent and are sorry I have setled as well as I could their debt They had bought brass vessels which I have taken from them they will do for our house what he spent for his brother is their own affaire with the Doby after the brass vessels there is but 2/2 Rs of debt it is not much for they had but a small pay, the vessels are 2/2 Rs too. they promise never make debts any more, both are sorry it would be good to send them Friday to Cannanore and let them be baptized, not to do it may prove worse for the whole family.

Now I must say good bye with love from all to you Love to sister Buhler and the Hodges. I hope your next will tell us better news of the impression of the good people there
 Yours.
 Julie Gundert

We are thank God all well.

