Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, Bearing

 Kaity 19 Jul 54
My dear wife

Yesterday about 3 PM I left Cunnur there was just some rain blown over and I could ride the whole ascent on Mr Stanes pony - walking it most slowly, and letting it run after me on even ground - the last 2 miles I made on foot - against a very strong headwind coming from your side. About 5 1/2 at Kaety where I found Mrs B. very quiet, only looking tired - Mrs Hodges attending her must kindly. Mr Orme the Registrar from Madras is also in the house and Metz, the latter quite well again. Sophie had something like a cold. Dobbie came down this morning Hodges will come at noon Minchin also will find his way down here in a short time. Have as yet only heard indistinct sounds, and had no full conversation with our Sister about the steps to be taken. She seems to have expressed a wish of going home overland. Metz has asked the Comm. to send Moer. down - Albr's child (the youngest) is not expected to live, the symptoms all like Br B's. Considerable ill feeling in Ottac. against the Comm. both on account of Albr's talking and because B. said he could not afford to keep a horse as the Dr's say that humanly speaking his sickness was brought about by walking to Kotergherry Dobbie had a quarrel with the Hodges - which forced him to leave them it is made up now. Thanks for all the news. Your sister has sent to my mother a good round sum. I am thankful that so much could be done so readily. Now farewell. I have some days of work before me and shall not be able to write so fully as I might wish for some time

Love to all. The Lord keep you and ours
 Yours HG.

