Rev Mssrs Hebich und Diez, Cannanore, pd

 Kaety 22 July 54
My dear wife

Yesterday I got your 2d letter. Best thanks for it. I hope you have got over your toothache and cough. I do not wonder that Peter has broken off again. If he was dismissed after Gnanamma's marriage I should not think it a great hardship for what sort of Catechist he ever will be I cannot understand. - Poor Manicam! I am glad the child stops. I am sorry for Joseph and his wife: but really they had been too bad and for such a length of time, that it seems as if nothing but a real upset could at last put them aright again. - The letter of Ost. you might send thro' Mr Diez to Mr Mögling. He was also ready to come up here and might have done many things more nicely than I can. But as I once have the duty I wade through as well as I can. Dear Scudder the Americ. Miss[ionar]y of Arcot and Vellore is very energetic and fine he knows and loves Cat. Andrew they are in treaty with H Groves about buying the Chittoor house and establishg themselves there. Everybody complains of the poverty in which the Comm. leaves us to starve B's food they say was not sufficient that he had to walk to Kotergh killed him humanly speaking - I defend the Comm. as well as I can, but Metz and c make that at times a difficult task. - Albr's child seems indeed better - I saw Mrs Selby there, whom A's like very much. Also Dr Schmid who grumbles about Committ. of Church Mission. Saw Mrs Lascelles en passant, but walked off again as they were just going to dine. Miss Mister is a real devil "don't mind to go to hell" Mr Hebich did me no good - it was all selfdeception from excitement etc. Mrs Hodgson keeps house for the Dobbies, so everything comes cheaper. Mrs Hodges lost by the Dobbies, the D's by Mrs Hodges which gives a bad smell. Hodgson is rather sulky at times. Maggy I liked very well as well as the Hodgson's children who asked very much after dear Archie, Dr Poulis etc. Mr Orme who lives here in Kaity lends me his pony for my goings up. We shall soon have a meeting with Minchin and Hodges (and Metz?, whom Minch. cannot bear, or will take no notice of) about the money matters. Mr Stokes rejoices already about Shimoga. But what is to become of it, when Moer returns to Kaity I don't know. Farewell

Kisses to the boys, love to Missies, Catechists and children  Your HG

