 Kaity 1 Aug 54

My dear wife

On Sunday (30th) we had the Lord's Supper. I was to have interpreted in English to Stanes and Orme, but Metz forgot it or changed his mind, so they heard only the Canarese sermon, which for the partakers from amongst the natives was rendered Tamil, - and I had to do my part of the work in the afternoon. Chinnappen was there with Martha and his mother Lydia. The latter is really a nice and affectionate Christian (baptized by Buhler, whom she loves extraordinarily) Martha still stupidly smiling, at home querrelsome and jealous. From Ch. I heard that Wiggins had arrived at Jacatallah and asked him to send him hither next Sunday, if he can get leave. Boyne one of the Cann. Congregation, is also there, has married a Roman Cath. and appears to be drawn away by her. - On Friday 28th I dined with Dr Scott He scouts the idea of B having died from disease of the brain. It was Cholera, but without spasms. Yet he complains that they did underlive, having dined there several times and finding the food not sufficient etc. This of course is not a thing to go further, as far as we are concerned, but up here it has told much against the Mission. - They collect subscriptions for Mrs B. and family: for which I am very sorry. Indeed it is a shame that Dobbie and Hodgson whom I saw last week and who read the Madr Chr Herald did not tell me of this appeal or what it is. Letters from Cal. informed me first of it: now also a letter from Weigle. As the subscription is said to be headed by the Bishop and I suspect there are other big men in it, I preferred not to wait till I got the paper, but wrote at once to the Editor, to revoke the appeal and return the gifts, as our Comm. have promised to provide for the widows and orphans of their Missionaries. It is a great shame that they did this thing without asking any body what our opinion on the subject is. Minchin is the cause of it. But there is a kind weakminded helper, Mr Orme, at present here in Kaity and Metz's good friend, who wishes everywhere to do good, without having much direction from above or waiting for it, who has also joined in the business. He says he only wrote to Stokes that some friends were laying together for Mrs B. at all events he has helped to make the matter so public. He will be not a little surprised to see my refusal in the paper. Mrs B. knows nothing of all this: it would grieve her exceedingly. She is generally well in heart, but has of course also very sad hours. Sophie is happy, and likes to see David Vau and Eddy. Greet all.  With love
 Yours HG.

