 Kaety 3 Aug 54

My dear wife

This time I have 2 letters of yours before me. As for Kilroy I will write to him a few words afterwards. From what I heard in Cal he seems to have got a good wife - I wonder you made lace for Mrs Griffiths - they are not famous for paying as you might know. Mrs P. Francis however has paid me 6 Rs for you. The other money I hope will come in. I dined with Mrs Francis and Mrs Griffiths today but they had asked other people too besides the Scudders, so there was no possibility of talking to some purpose. Before dinner I had her a little while and began about the child she lost. She wept at once, but company came - invited without my knowledge, Crethi and Plethi, so there was a full stop. Scudder said afterwards: those stupid dinners, I always fell in such society as if I was an ass, and cannot say anything sensible. - Please send some patterns of lace to your old friend Lieut. J Mackenzie, 2d E.L.I. Secunderabad, as soon as possible, He wants them for Mrs Bushby, the Resident's lady there. He wrote to Hodges about them. From what he writes he seems still anxious to have intercourse with Christians, but he fears the Plymouth brethren there. My intention was to leave next week, but Mrs B. prefers for her health the week following so then I hope we shall leave for Coonoor the 14th afternoon and reach Calicut the Saturday following. The horse might leave Chiracal Tuesday the 15th, so as to arrive at Tanoor on Friday - From there I would ride him in to Calicut, at least part of the way. He must on no account go farther, if he does not reach Tanoor, it does not matter, in that case let him stop at Parappenangadi. Nathanael knows the places and can explain.

I hope to come on Saturday from Codacal in Manjil and would then ride on as well and as far as I could - pass Sunday at Calicut, but send the horse on, Tuesday, the 22d I might then D.V. be in Chiracal (leaving sister B. for some days at Calicut). But all this may be changed. - I am glad that we are rid of Peter, I heard also at Coimbatore what an unsatisfactory person he was. But if the marriage could have taken place, I might have hoped something better for Gnanamma. - Nothing good to be heard of the Wests here - all sad! - But that is fine, that Wilkinson paid what Kerr was answerable for - (a story which Heb. will tell you. - Had today some hours talk and explanation with Maj. Minchin. - Now good bye
 Yours HG.

love from Mrs B. Dobbie Hodgson etc

