 <Kaity 13 Aug 54>*

1My dear Major Minchin

I am not surprized that you should blame my conduct as unchristian, but I can assure you that - though grieved to be pushed to this, I believe to have performed a duty in acting as I did.

Do not think that I view the beginning of your undertaking in any other light, than that of real kindness. But when I came up here and found the strongest censures on the Committee coupled with an anxious desire to serve the widow, it behoved me to prevent her from being placed in a wrong position. I therefore did what I could to prevent the appeal from being sent farther, and should have preferred its being quashed altogether. But as there were difficulties in the way, I felt that I ought at all events to take care of the Society's honor in these proceedings, and as the heading of the Appeal seemed to be injurious to the same, I requested every donor should at least be informed that the appeal rested on untenable grounds. 
Now it appeared to me that you were much opposed to our Society, while friendly to its individual members. I heard repeatedly what hard things you were saying of its breach of faith etc. It was only after I had visited you on the 3d, that I read your letter to Mr Hodges, and gathered from it how adverse your feelings were to our Society and its interests, at the very time when you were on a friendly footing with us. I had during my visit given a distinct denial to the prospects of becoming a maidservant, which Mrs. B. had been said to have before her. Yet I heard that you mentioned the same prospect afterwards (I think on Saturday the 5th) in conversation with Capt Dobbie. I had no reason to doubt the correctness of this casual remark falling from my friends lips, and concluded from this circumstance that you were determined not to think better of our Society whatever I might say to the Contrary. I should have felt it altogether wrong in Mrs B. to be severed from the interests of the Society to which she still belongs, by being put under obligation to those who despise ist. Therefore I advised her as I did: however the words are used in the letter you enclosed which may convey an impression somewhat different from mine. I rested my grounds for declining the gift entirely "on the mistaken idea you still seem to harbour as to Mrs. B's prospects at home" - I did not wish to grieve you with this remark, but to show that we were prepared to stand by our Society whilst under a cloud at least in the estimation of many English friends: and I believe declining a gift on these grounds to be perfectly reconcileable with a grateful sentiment for the kindness you meant to show to the individual, a feeling which I trust to keep in spite of any unpleasantness that may follow this act of mine. I hope God may show you that it was not so rude or harsh as it may have appeared at first, and I heartily pray Him to convince you of our sincere wish to keep up the bond of union in Him, in whom I am
 Yours very sincerely
 H Gundert
Kaity 13 Aug 54.

