 Kaety 24 Jul 54

My dear wife

Yesterday Sunday Metz preached Canarese. In the evening I had prayer etc in German. Mrs Hodges and Dobbie returned Saturday to Ott. I finished today the list of books. - Yesterday sister B. came to the resolution, as I had expected, to accompany me down to the low country. Still I shall have to spend about 2 weeks more here, in order to make the necessary arrangements. She has many things that could only be sold at a loss here and would be useful to schools; we shall send these down probably before us - when they arrive, you Ladies may think as to how to distribute them over the stations. Do you want wool for work? I said, on account of the insects large stores are perhaps not useful on the coast, therefore sell at least half up here.

I am glad you could do something for the Canian's wife. I hope the seed will not be lost altogether. As for the persons preparing to be baptised, I hope there may be a blessing on the instruction. But I confess I could have little comfort in receiving Jona and his wife, Manicam and Cugnipen without there being really some new work in them. May God give them real repentance. I don't doubt they weep very readily, when kept off again, but I think it possible that seeing others run before them, may prove afterwards an advantage to them. I hope you may at all events have another gardener as long as Jona is absent, for it would not do to leave the compound so entirely denuded of men. - Mrs Francis sent me word I must go and see her or she will never talk to me any more. I can hardly escape complying with such an order. Tomorrow I intend to ride up and pay a number of visits. 25. I did it and saw her on the point of starting for Bang looking very well - saw also Jessie Groves - David's letter you must tell him, has been most interesting. But I should like to know more of what he thinks, when he draws these lines. Capt Dobbie talks much of him, being still very fond of child's play. Sophie did not help him much to that, her temper is very soured as she suffers much from a sore mouth. We are all well and peacefully together Mrs B. much better than I thought possible (Dr Scott wished to treat her, but I sent for her treatment and Bühler's 100 Rs to him, which he accepted - when she told him, she was on the move homewards) Now farewell love to all
 Yours HG

