+1 An Hebich (Archiv)

 Ootacamoond 17 July 1854.

<(Nach längerer Auseinandersetzg weßhalb er und Minchin als cotrustees der Casamajorschen Stiftung Moericke nach Kaity zurückversetzt wünschen):> 
Your Society would be unworthy of the Confidence. Mr. Casamajor placed in them, a confidence gained by the high charakter of the man (Moer) whom they have removed, if he is not sent back to Kaity. ...2 Mr Moer. was highly esteemed by Mr Casamajor, he is also highly esteemed by the Engl residents on the Hills as well as by the Natives to whom he preached ...2 his removal has been most injurious to the Mission (here) because he has a correct knowledge of the language and character of the people - where as another Missionary would be 2 or 3 years in requiring such knowledge and consequently could be of no real service for that period. ...2

With reference to our dear brother Bühler it is the united opinion of the Physicians who kindly attended him, that his illness was occasioned by fatigue in walking from Kaity to Kotergiri and part of the way back, about 24 miles, and their opinion being made public has caused much enquiry respecting your Missionaries, the support they receive from your committee etc, and I have heard many expressions of astonishment and indignation that your Com. should be so indifferent to the temporal wants of their Missionaries. Your Com. would do well to consider that their Mission is supported through the instrumentality of their men, whose selfdenial, zeal and love have by the grace of God won the hearts of Christians in this land, - they are men who think their lives not dear so that they may win one soul to Christ. Yet your Comm. appear to deal with them as hirelings compelling them to render a daily account of the expenditure of the small allowance they receive, and to give back any that remains of it, to the general fund, consequently their minds are too often exercised in how they shall manage to live on their pittance instead of being free in their Masters work.

Is not the Lord thus dishonored? and is not this the reason why your Mission is in debt? as appears by the last report just received. We see a greater liberality in all other evangelical Missions and therefore the Lord makes them to prosper.

I believe that many efforts would have been made by friends here for the support of your Mission, had they not been discouraged by knowing the facts I have stated.

I enclose a letter from Dr Scudder which I hope you will forward to your Comm. - In conclusion I would entreat you to urge on your Comm. the necessity of adopting a different system and more liberal measures for carrying on the work of the Lord in India.

 Ever my dear Brother affectioly yours
 John Hodges.


<auch einer von Scudder 17/7 unter 26/7>

