 <August 1854>*
1My dear Eddy

It is long ago since I got your last note but I have been a long time very ill and could not write. Good Lord Jesus has granted again to me better health and a little strength. I am very glad that you will go by and bye to Europa, that will be good for your health. Sweat Paule will be a dear companion to you on the voage. We do pray now dayly for you and the other children who have to go home. After few years I shall send my Gottlob there too and I am sure, you will be a very kind guide to him.

Let me know whether Paule is still talking of going to the Lord Jesus? tell me also about David what he is doing. My Gottlob has now a cow of his own, a Malasamudra cow, but no doubt, yours is a far superior one. Now dear Eddy, plenty love to you and Brothers from Mr. Stanger and Gottlob and chiefely from
 Your's affectionately
 M m

My love to Missi both and salaams to the Girls and people in the Compound. 
2Scudder Physician American board - Hodges



 <Octob 54>*
1My dear Eddy!

Your letter gave me great joy, I am glad you are so well and busy in prepairing to go to Europa. I dare say you will then ...te forget me, but hwo knows whether I shall not see you again there, and will then remind you of your love and affection you showed once towards me. What is the matter with sweet Paule that he thinks of fliing to heaven, is he not quite well? Ask dear Mama, whether it will be useful for you and Paule to get nice, warm Croche caps and comforters round your necks or if Mama can tell me of something else you want? I shall feel very happy to work anything for you both. Mama shall be pleased to tell what I should work for you as soon as possible, and ask Missi to write to me about it when Mama does not feel well enough to write. But please let me know very soon as I am often unwell and want therefore a good long tim to work anything. How is dear David, can he talk well now?

Give my love to both Missi, Kisses to Paule and David and salaams to all the girls and people in the Compound.

With much love
Ever Your's affectionately
 Maam

