Revd H Gundert, Ottacamund, care of Mrs Buhler, paid

 Saterday <15 July 54>1
Dear papa.

How glad have I been this morning Friday to recieve your letter from Calicut, for the rain has been so incessant that I feared for you, however the text of this morning had already made me quite. Hebich came yesterday rather early saw all the people and at five went away. To day at noon in great haste come the Vandy with a note requisting that Ruth peters widow, Sarah, and the two eldest girls of Peter should be sent at once, which I have done. I was rather surprised of such a hurry. He told me that Francis had done fornication but she will not confess it and her husband is in her side and displeased that H. gives ear to a heathen rather than to his wife. These sins Mr H. tells more freely than those of his own people. Jacob came with him and returned along. I like Sebastian's prayers the evening very much. He teaches the women as Jacob used to do, though he is not well, he coughs very much. At Telli they had your letters for they have been returned here with many good wishes for you. Here all is as usual. Thanks to God for health and so much loving kindness.

All the people will send a Salam to you of course I cannot name them all tho they would wish it.

Love much love to dear Sister Buhler
 Yours afftly Julie Gundert

Saterday morning still plenty rain at night too it was a comfort to me to know you do not travel by night

Ester is still here she could truly not go with her chail by such a weather 
