Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, bearing

 Cunnur 18 July 54
My dear wife

This time it is a short story - Yesterday at 4 I dined at the Thomas - went before 6 with bullock cart, stopped a little as was agreed upon in Goodelur, but as soon as I was asleep in the bandy, the driver followed my example under it, and the moon was some way up before I awoke and aroused him. After 6 this morning in Matypalyam found horse and a Cooly, and rode off. At Bareli bridge (about halfway) an other horse which went very fast, having not been ridden for some time. So I needed no more to descend and give the beast a little rest, came up about 10, saw first young Mr Stanes, who was so fond of Bühler and served him with such devotion. He promises me a pony for the afternoon. At Woodfall's about 10 1/2 - breakfasted, but without the Lady who is not quite well and remains invisible. I feel very comfortable, and having nothing else to do tried to remember you all and bring our wants and queries before the Lord thus the time has run off very quickly even in these tiresome carts. - Mrs Albr's child suffers severely - also she had dysentery the Dr's send her down - but for the child's sake she cannot move (something the matter with its brain). A.<lbrecht>* very much displeased with being sent to Shimoga - the "Autocrat" Josenhans must suffer for it. Mrs B. wrote me a few lines - at times all seems merely a bad dream to her - she is very glad I come and has returned to Kaety. So then this evening we shall meet D.V. Grace be with you all
 Yours HG

