 <13 August 1854>*

Dear papa

On thursday as Mr Hebich was here he said that your horse should be sent at once; but as you spoke only of 15th tuesday I have kept it however Nani sais that it would be good to let it go on monday so I do that it may rest a little and also that the Horsekeep has not to be in such a harry. 
Before you return here Jesuvadial will have become the wife of Nehemaih, and the beauty of our school as Mr. H. says Rebeka will be the wife of George the smith there two marriages are to take place on the 20th with the Lord supper which has been announced for that day H. is again in a great harry to run off as soon as you have come We have had some fine days now it rains. still I hope it will not pour as it did when you went. Pour Mrs Muller is greeved that the Com advises her to stay here though they say "not as command but it is our desire", but she has a mind to go with him. I hear that Mrs Huber is again very ill. From Tellicherry they have sent here the mother of Rohda who was in the poor house; but she is still so ill that she ought to have been kept in the poor house where there is a foond for sick people, we can not do it here. Speak please to the brethren about her that she may return there. After you had gone I sent Minachi to Cannanore for she was always ill, there Mr H. spoke to the Dr. who would have treated her; but she would not consent to an examination, so she was sent off she came here to take away her little girl, to day I hear that, that pretty dear little girl has died of the Cholera which is very severe at Cannanore. Here it has attaked a few houses; but left nearly none alive in the household. I do not hear of any sick people just now. I told David that perhaps we shall go together spend the hot season at the Coorg he greatly rejoices and said, but the little Gabriel my Gabriel must be there to play with me. I think there is a begining of God's work in Rebeca for some time she is serious and speaks of her sins, she has wept with me, it is an axtraordinary thing for her to shed one tear they are the first I ever saw on her face.

It rains still very much but I trust it will be better next week when you have to come. I stay at home this sunday 13th I like my turn here all our children and all the littl girls are here too, Jacob and his wife are here too, she has her time again and as Ruth has gone to Can for some time he stays at home to care for her. Ruth will not return with them they cannot agree together so either she will stay at Canna. ore come to us this place she seems to prefere to C. Peter is still at C. with his family; but no christian goes to him nor does he come near. Sebastian's boy has been very ill and is still unwell with rejecting the food he takes and diarrhe, on says, it is cholera. Manicam has not been baptized; but she is rather nice waiting for an other time which she bags should not be too far off. 
It is raining as much as it did when you went off. I am almost sorry to send the horse; but I hope it will be better after a few days and you will be able to ride if it was still raining when you come to Calicut do please stay at Cali. till the weather is better, there is no harry for you to return by the rain, remain there quiet I bag you and write a few lines to us  Yours afftly
 J Gundert

13th evening
tomorrow early the horse leave

