Rev. H Gundert, Ottacamund, care of Mrs Buhler, paid

 <Ende Juli 1854>*

Thank dear pappa for your kind letter of the 23d from Otti I hope the fight with Dr Scudder has produced some effect. Is Metz greeved to have in some measure helped in causing such an ill notion of the Com. I have sent to Pauline Etty <Jette's>1 letter. A letter came from Kilroy no news it, much rain, good health Mr Hoch wrote to him a letter in which he speaks very highly of his son. Sent the letter by his tailor to whom the remaining clothes of Betzy were to be given.

Wednesday we have disptched the parcels of edgings to the Hills and have asked to send the money to you Mrs Griffiths 8 Rs. 6 as Mrs Phillotts 2 Rs 10 as Mrs Francis 5 Rs 14 as. Mr Hebich was here yesterday, he will not be able to baptize the people this sunday. If you have no objections I shall let John <Jona>* and his wife go for the last week to the instruction it would be good for them. Mr Hebich is rather displeased with the Cochi woman she has no spirit. Francis does not approch Hebich is still very angry. Peter it seems will go with all his children even Gnianama, it is probably better The pills of arsenic do wonderfully with God's grace some people who have taken them have quite recovered. There is not much sickness about, none in our house thank God.

Some time I fancy you will be sent on the Hills as there is no one to replace Moerke if it was the will of God we could go more joyfully than when the missionaries children were in question.

As my letter was folded up already a knife with oil was put on it so that all has been spoiled Missy has quikly coppied Herman s one and I yours Frederic's one spotted does not matter

Love from all and from me to Sister Buhler
 Yours Julie Gundert
27th July

