Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, bearing

 Palghat 15 Jul 54
 <Epp v. Pa. an Mama Juli u. Aug 1854 (auf den Nilag.)>*

My dear wife

On Friday morning I left Calicut, but against all precedents furnished with a cup of coffee, which I drank 4 1/2 o'clock - the Fritz's would not do it otherwise, seeing I had the dreadful prospect of being 2 days and one night without any thing warm. At first little rain, but the last station from near Codacal to Tirstalla seemed interminable - the rain and wind all helped to tire me (and the bearers also). They* got milk and filled all chairs of the bangalow with things to be dried (but the box has been impervious to the rain). In the morning up with new strength - fine day - now and then a shower, but got only a little of the spray into the Manjil and walked a good many miles, without any of the bearers protesting against it. About 5. P.M. met Thomas who watched for my coming - found Obrien and his family all well - talked - After 7 or 8 PM to Adj. Haultain where I was to sleep (or rather am to sleep) and where I write this, in order to have something ready for the Tappal tomorrow. I often remember you and the dear children. May God be with you all, and bless you tomorrow at the communion. 
16th I talked yesterday at prayer and after prayer with H. and Capt Jones, who seems less lively. Obr. tells me he has again been out shooting. Also Mr Puckle the Q. Mr is not considered to press on very fast. Haultain I think is very steady, though a little backward in speech. I was much pleased with him. They invited me to preach to the English, but I pleaded already the absence of clothes for this solemn duty, this being the prescribed day of humiliation about the war. The fact is I should otherwise see nothing of the native Congregation, as I intend leaving early in the evening for Coimbatore, just when they meet for the 2d service. I therefore intend helping their 1st service at 11 AM; in the way in which Obrien does - speaking Mal and having Daniel for doing it into Tamil. I wonder if the mail brought any thing from Stuttg. but I shall probably hear of that on my arrival in Kaety. With love to all wishing you peace of mind and a happy work amongst the schoolgirls
 Yours H Gundert

