Rev. H. Gundert, Ottacamund, care of Mrs Buhler, paid

 Chiracal 8th Aug <1854>*
Dear papa

Thanks for your last of 1 Aug. though I thought you could not get ready for to come back as you anticipated at first, I have not written for 7 days, by fear you might have left perhaps. Is Mrs Buhler coming at once to us or is she staying a few days at every stations from Calicut? The news about the people baptized Diez will have given you, as I know he wrote you yesterday. You will be pleased as well as Mrs Lascelles to hear Jesuvadial is to be the the bride of Nehemia she loves him and all seems to be right if her father gives his consent, She has been latly very nice I believe there is a work of the Lord in her. please in writing to Mrs L about it to give her my love. As I have only these news from yesterday I have no time to write to her as she had asked by Mrs Foulis. Nehemiah has been quickly sent to Talipa. for the Rog Peter is still at Can. and will try to get him away. 
Francis is (one say) thinking of going to Bangalore or Madras and trys to get her sister away with her the last has not been nice at all for some time. Nani is nice; but as she leads him by the nose what is to be expected. Mr Meog has sent us 5 bottles of honny for which give him please my hearty thanks. I like to hear of his work there and I read with great pleasure his lines in the Christian Herald. Here all as usual, some sick people in the village. Sebastian has left us yesterday. I am glad I had an opportunity to know him more than before.

Now love to the friends and to you from all
 Yours J. Gundert

