Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing <Rev S. Hebich>1

3 Coimbatore 17 July 54

My dear wife

I wrote yesterday from Palghaut. There I preached Mal and Daniel made it into Tamil, Obrien prayed. I mentioned also the humiliation business, but Obr. did not touch upon it in his prayer. They are all very nice, also Thomas and wife give satisfaction to O. Mrs Daniel I did not see as her house was too far for my time. O's children seem to grow up very nicely. He is I think also highly esteemed by the natives. Apropos, I heard that Peter had drunk even the very day he left Palgh and that he never gave up that habit in spite of all declarations and promises. - Capt. Jones is still quite unclear about the way God whould have him walk in. Knox Puckle etc I did not see. I left at 5 P.M. walking with Obr. When rain came on I sat into the bandy hired by Collector Knox - very slow business that, so went out, enquired, found that a lame bullock was the cause of our miserable progress - walked on seeking for other bullocks, found such at last and changed (no pecuniary profit!) In the middle of the way another pair of bullocks had been posted for me - but starved by order of the Cutwal who would not advance a pice to the poor driver, so they soon began to stop and drop - Towards morning I fed them with the straw I was lying on, walking before them and holding out a wisp now to the one then to the other - but the business was too slow, so I walked on, the last 6 miles to Coll Thomas house, arrived at 7 AM and the bandy reached after 10. So much for the broken reed of government's assistance at least in Palghaut. I had it all ordered by letter from Calicut, but the native officials spoiled the business. In future I will rather get Obrien to help me for these things. With him I left Manjil, bason bedding, clothes etc and feel now much lighter. 
Mr Thomas was (is) kind - Miss sings nicely - is not very fond of Mr Hebich I should think, he must have shown her the heartbook too pointedly. Went to Mrs Addis - for he is in Salem on a visit, saw young Addis and his sister nothing particularly worthy to remember

The plan of having a Mission connected with our Society in No. Coimbatore, originates with young Thomas, Assist Coll, who is just absent. His father and uncle however pledge themselves to help it on, and to guarantee a certain sum every month. The particulars I have not heard, time was too short. In the evening I hope to go on per bandy. Thomas promises that I shall be better provided than last night. I hear there is a letter for me from Cunnur (Woodfall about the horse for going up the pass?) it was carried to Addis house and where not! but has not yet come to hand. I suppose it is all right and that my next letter will tell you of my safe arrival on the cloudy heights now before me. - How are the children with yourself? I hope all quiet and peaceful. Love to all in Chir. and Cann. Could you speak with Chappi? The news about them all made Obr. quite happy. Now farewell in the Lord
 Yours HGdt

Mault (of Nagercoil) goes home.

W. schickt das Pferd.

