 113 <Octb 54>*

My dear Mr Wh<ithouse>*

I am sorry that you should find it necessary to speak again about the little circumstance which I thought settled exactly a month ago during our evening walk at Tellicherry (13 Sept). Br Fritz can only have spoken of what he heard the morning before our conversation when Mr Hebich indeed intended to speak to you on this subject (for that you sent 2 of our Excatechists and excommunicated* from our Church on a Sunday to call for his tranlator and interpreter.

But as we had an impression of his manner being not agreeable to you, we begged him rather to pass it over and I alone mentioned it therefore to you. I shall now write to Mr Fritz and inform him of my being satisfied I have given your letter to the Catechist and he thanks you for the Christian instruction* of that evening you taken* him - As you by your explan. allude to the unhappy state of things in the religious world at Cann. let me add a few words on this subject. I do not wonder at this state nor think it unhappy in a higher degree than is the case where ever spirit and letter are opposed to each other. But I was surprised that you listened and spoke only to the worldly and appeared to shun what we call the Church. Believe me I am not here of ecclesiastical differences, I am neither blind to the defects of the Church to which I belong by my education, nor inimical to any other protestant Community. What I therefore mean is not, that you serve or defend the Church of your fathers, but that you seem to receive as brethren men who do not think it their duty at all to separate from the world and bear the cross of Christ so that your visit seems rather to have strengthened them in their unconverted state with the everready excuse of being good Churchmen, than brought them any nearer to those, who - under a differt name, and with many blemishes - no doubt - are yet the Lord's people. I confess this gave me a painful impression, after I had repeatedly experienced warm hearted communion and noble elevation over* the distinctions of form on the part of both Laymen and Clergymen (yea and Chaplains) of the English Church. I feared from the first that you would be sadly prejudiced agst Mr Hebich, by taking the course you did, but could do nothing to modify it. Now I would seize this opportunity for bearing my humble testimony to the fact that he is misrepresented by those who call him an enemy to the Church of Engld, and that the main cause of their enmity is his determined opposition to the boasting and security of the natural heart and his insisting without mercy on the necessity of being converted. As for his being no enemy to your Church I may mention an instance of the last month, when he with all his people received the Lord's supper at Malapuram from one of your Chaplains. I trust God will yet make you rejoice not only over our labors among the heathen, but also over Souls converted from nominal Christianity to a living faith by the service of Mr Hebich. I hope you will not take this hasty note amiss nor trouble yourself to answer it. I thought it better to write as I felt at the moment than to be overcautious: and praying the Lord to bless you in your soul and your labors

 I remain
 Yours very sincerely
 HG.

