Rev. H. Gundert, Ottacamund, care of Mrs Buhler, paid

 Chiracal 30th july <54>*
Dear papa.

Thanks for yours of the 24th which I got yesterday at Cannanore where I went along with Natcheram. Mr Hebich yesterday morning had Peter on his veranda with the Catechists, H in a few words related how many mercies God had done to P and how ungratful and shamefully he had dealt gave him his 3 girls and sent him off, forbidding him the enterance in to any one of the Christian's houses, order given to the Buttler that at once the man be off. Poour Nehemia was very near leaving Heb. to follow Peter who had inticed him with fine words and lies.

I think it would not be wise to buy any wool; for Mrs Christ in her last letter announces a parcel of wool and work for our school. I am glad to hear sister B. is coming along to the coast, perhaps after all she may make up her mind to stay in India. There is a fine letter of Mg<lg> in the Christian Herald I felt much rejoiced in reading it! Have I told you that at last the Canian's wife died. They would become christians, but to have their hair cut off is a too great shame they cannot bear it. I shall wonder if you can finishe all the work in tow weeks as you say, forget not to give orders about the horse! We are thank God all well.

Twice I have seen the stout Chapi she reminds me of Hanna at Telli may she be a better Christian than Hanna, As for Ramoti I feel like with Paul of Chombala the more I see the more I like him May God do by him much work to his praise and Glory and bring many such like Ramoti, May also such a one come out of our dead village. A man who had gone from this place to Hebich has run away again. Mr Hebich is not inclined to baptize all those who are under instruction, many shall remain I think but Jona and wife we will consider still this week. I just hear from Pauline in answer to what I sent He leaves her for a meeting with Amman and Greiner
love to all
 Yours Julie Gundert

