 27 July <54>*

My dear wife

Thanks for your letter (of no date). I am glad Sebastian makes him self so useful. May the Lord give his blessing on all that is done there. I still hope, some thing may spring out from our neighbours affliction. - You are right in what you say of the letters of Dr Scudder and Mr Hodges, but the Missionaries are not to be blamed exclusively. It is chiefly those who visited Ott. who left those false impressions behind, and there arises sometimes a wind, to gather all such chaff and stubble, so as to create for the moment a great cloud, but it is soon over. I always opposed my unmistakeable appearance to all those clamours about starving and succeeded I think in a great degree to silence them. Bühler's fault was I think very small in this matter. He did not complain about having no horse, but preferred to buy one after the prices have gone down a little (for gram, rice etc) Mrs B. thought of buying one for him from her private money and had charged Stanes with it, when B was taken ill. Sc. however had seen B. before his walk to Kotergh and supposed he might suffer in the brain: the symptoms that followed it, induced him to accuse this very walk of having hastened his death. This may be the case, without there being any one to be blamed for it. Just as our dear father died in consequence of that unused exertion brought on by the illness of his servant. But why say more on this subject. If the Lord is with us, such talking may soon be lived down. I shall be glad if John and his wife are thought fit for baptism. But you understand that from this distance I cannot write any thing like a decision. I hope they see from what you are doing, that our mind is to help them also in their temporal concerns: may God give them a heart for eternal blessings. Mr Hebich to whom I wrote this morning can tell you more about our thoughts and my proposals to the Committee. Please read from him the letters of young Thomas, and ask him when he has done with them to send them on to Br Moerike. He writes I think fine letters to Mrs B. but she does not show them to me, as they generally move her to tears. Mögl advises her strongly to stay in India, which she also - partly from indefinite fears would prefer; but without a decisive change in her health I do not think it advisable. I fully believe God will in time direct her in even and pleasant paths. Now farewell
 Your HG

Schaffter I hear is laid aside for several months.

