Rev. H. Gundert, Ottacamund, care of Mrs Buhler, paid

 <20/21 Jul 54>*
Dear papa

I was very glad on wednesday morning to receive your letter from Palgh and see that so far the Lord had brought you safe. we are here all well thanks to God, Ruth had a very bad diarrhya which looked like the Cholera; but now she is well. Our neighbour Canian's wife was very bad they had no hope of her recovry, when the vomitings came one I gave twice the little pills of arsenik with a mustard poltis on the stomack. They all asked that we should pray for her (which we also have done), they said that they would become Christians, if the voman recovered! but I fear they are like Pharo; Nani has showed himself very nice in their case faithful in speaking of God and kind. Mr Hebich came and asked to have in his house the people who are to be baptized as he teaches them 4 hours a day two morning and 2 evening. Manican was just coming back when people were preparing to go and she consented to go too with her Magy to prepare for baptizem. So the toolu woman with her child, Ruth. Manican and Magy Rohda, Ponanta, Evata, Bitia have gone to recieve instruction. Hebich wishes also to baptise the Tatiparambu little one, Minachi's, one. I did not know what to do What is your mind? 
Our neighbour who would become a Christian if his wife recovered has already refused to come to speak with Hebich or made excuses. This evening the sun is shining it is so nice to see light again, so many days we could scarsly see

Now dear papa with love from all and my special one to dear Sophie  I remain Yours
 Julie Gundert

Mrs Young and Fowlis were here yesterday They are very desirous to hear about of Mrs Buhler to whom they send much love and best wishes 
