Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

3 Moolky 31 Oct 52

My dear wife

On Friday I wrote Nro 2 In the evening I went to see Mrs Cummin, and found with her Mrs Anderson and a Mrs Mcdonald (of the Mng. Regiment) afterwds also Dr and Mrs Foulis came to the visit. This Mrs Mcd. has lately lost a child and seems to have turned to the Lord. - Saturday morning I visited Greiner for an hour - Degg is troubled because he will only be permitted to marry if Ammann gives a good report of him. Hence he does not know how his matters will turn. He seems to confess himself that he has not as yet saving faith. He is half afraid and half ashamed of the new Catechist Samuel who is placed under him for the orphan institution. - Gr. seems to have misunderstood an expression of Heb's. When the latter wrote to him, that he had received (angenommen) Jonathan and wished now to hear what his faults were, this appeared ridiculous to Gr. for if he has been already received "for the Lord's supper" (as Gr. imagined) what need to tell about his former faults. I told him he was mistaken in this: and Heb. did not receive him into the Church till the Palgh. journey. Afterwards examination of the scholars (at the last Saturday of every month) but as I had sent Jacob and his daughter <Ruth?>* beforehand to Moolky I could not leave the children, until I had at last Ebenezer sent to me from Hoch - then I heard Mgl and Herm examine. The answers not very splendid. Jacob the Cat. has spoken with many. When he asked George what he ought to say to Br Heb he said Tell that I have no mind to learn! Jesuadian avoids Jacob as much as possible. 
After dinner, about 2 o'clock I went in the Manjil off to Moolky. Mörike had ridden over in the morning. The horse had arrived Saturday morning but after I had dispatched Ruth, so that I preferred to go with the children in the Manjil of Mglg (10 bearers) They were interested in passing the rivers and in being carried close to the receding sea, which now and then washed the bearers' feet. At Suratcal I walked a little for a change, but Fred cried when I was not close to the Patt. and laid hold of my coat, so I preferred at last going again in lying posture. We arrived after 7 1/2 and I had to walk part of the way towards the close of our journey because they had left the road for a short (rocky miry narrow) path. Frd. cried again when he saw me going before the Palankin. At last we entered into the fine veranda Then Paul lamented his misfortune to have again to make new acquaintances but I procured them soon some milk (for I had taken no provisions for the 6 hours journey - and was towards the end in continual fear lest they complain of hunger and I have to confess my inability to satisfy them) and all became quiet. They lie as in Mng. on 2 sophas put close together. - Today Sunday morning Tulu service - about Lazarus' resurrection - the children would not join - Now Catechization - whilst I write this to send it to morrow with Mörike to Mang. The children just come and announce with joy ______________________________________ - Also Bührer's children are not very prayerful!

This evening Lehmann arrived after having been 12 days in the district. He seemed rather cheerful. Mörike will take this tomorrow to Mang He starts at 3 o'clock early and now it is past 10 so time for me to conclude. - Vau likes Moolky better than Balmatha - why? __________________________________ _______________________ too many people - here more quiet - but on Wednesday I shall return with Mglg Jacob Catech etc. who will arrive here tomorrow. Don't write to me after next Saturday

Well1 the Lord bless you all
 Yours HG

