Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal <14 März 1852>*
 sunday eveng
Dear papa.

The horse keeper has just come to meet me on the road from Can. bringing your note for which, I thank you. I am verry sorry to hear about all your trouble; I trust they will end without being hurted by them. 
To day we had a very excellente sermon on the words blessed are those who hear the word and keep it. Mrs Young told me she has never eyned or profitted of a preaching of Moeg<ling>* as much as to day!

If Moegl. had gone by sea you would have seen our children with him, but it is likely he will leave on monday evening by land; Mrs Maurice* <? Morris?>* little baby died yesterday morning Diez burried it on the same evening. As her two other children are weak and look as if they had very little life I offerd her to take them for a little change which she has accepted with gratitude. the little one died from convulsion consequence of teething. the little Rice who is also a very poor child has come too, our children look very curious at them.

Since you have left I have felt greeded to have spoken with the Inspector about the Buhlers and Irions though what I have said I still believe to be true, yet having no calling to pronounce my judjement, I have it appears to me wanted charity to them specially to Irion, the knovledge of my own sins, weakness, short commin should have made me to spare others. If you think right to tell this to the Inspector please to do it I desire to humble myself before God whose Holly presence I deed not feel in speaking. 
Our dear children are thank God well. Major Young is still thinking of going to Mangalore by the steamer. Mogling has a small parcel for Mrs Chist please to see the letter in side put the adress and give it to the Insp or Mr Bonds <Bunz.>*

Monday Mr Moeg tells me that Mr Hoch has plenty slates Please to ask him to be so kind as to let us have one or two dozen with pencil, you shall pay them as well as some wool which I owe to Sister H they will tell you the price.

As I am much in want of slates and pencils I beg you to entreat Hoch about them if possible with my love to them and all the friends.

Kisses from children
 Yours
 J. Gundert

