Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal 26th <Oct>* 52
Dear papa. <in Mangal.>*

I have promised to enclose in this a letter to Marie; but I cannot to day I had too much to do, it will come by and by. Thank for your salam through Joseph and Diez. I was surprised Vau did not weep after his Margrette; and astonished Eddy was afraid at the moving of the pattimar and hopes he is quite at home in it. We had a pretty good night David now and then calling for water and telling that he had pein in his mouth. to day he is pretty good but will have Elisabeth to play with him. He calls Vau and Gi and sicks for them in the rooms and than show that they have gone to Cannanore. 
Cleaning is going on all round our houses our cows's man has taken charge of all for rather a moderate price. The poor girl <Tschiruta>* who came on sunday <Sunday 24.>* is rather sad and wept a good deal the very morning of the day you left after her mother. She is a good friend of Ester, perhaps they will make their escape if they knew where to go. In the village they say that she was flogged by her mother for having had a bad life; for she is they say with child, she is displised to learn to write on sand with the little girls so I have now told her to learn with the women who do not write; but learn to read in the spelling book. Nani is teaching while Joseph is maty. Checoti is still ill. Our women are cutting the grass in the compound.

Samuel has received 3 Rs ad on this month. and the Horsekeeper 3 too. We are all as usual no news to my knowledge. As you have recommended me to be very dilligent into irening I can tell you that this morning I have iren 40 yards of lace, but now it is done for some days.

Nex time I write I shall D.V. add ... some lines to my boys. to Mary and above all to dear Pauliny and perhaps to Sophie,

Let me know about your movement to Moolky or other places. tell me also where you live and how Ruth and her father are going on. <? Pflege Tocht. v Ramav?>* She must care that our boys do not go to the sun Rachelle <Frau v Ramav>* is well and sends love to her husband our missis send love and the girls Salams

Wednesday David is much better he has slept nicely, but. We have no wind here you are still at sea I suppose. Missy will have her special love to Paul and I kisses to both remain
 Yours J Gundert

I have quite forgotten to put in your box our three watches which do not go at all Shall I send them? or what
love to all specially Pauline Hoch

