4 Mang 4 Nov 52

My dear wife

Monday morning I sent thro' Mörike a letter which was delayed by his staying a day at Suratkal with Möglg and the boys who came in the evening - You speak of getting my 2d letter, but nothg of my first. When this arrives, you will no more write in answer. - Mglg and the Cat boys arrived Monday evening very tired - after having preached on the road - so he slept and snored from 8-6 in the morning. The next morning they went to preach on the Moolky bazar I then resolved rather to make the journey in 2 parts, and sent Ruth <Ramav>* with the 2 boys in the Manjil, myself following on horseback (Hermann had ridden my horse from Mng.) - We arrived 6 P.M. in the Suratkal Bangalow and slept I in the Manjil (which the boys refused to lie in, apparently because not firmly supported by 2 corners of window sills) the 2 fellows on the narrow couch, repeatedly tumbling over each other. 3 o'clock in the morning we rose and continued our march to Mng. Arrived very opportunely just for breakfast time (bef. 7 o'clock) - and in the evening also the other party returned from Moolky Mglg havg hurt his foot by a fall on the road and therefore obliged to day to keep quiet, Herm. with a sore throat and unable to keep his lessons. I tried to visit the Dr but he has to attend on a sort of maniac, Dr Jolland and was just sleeping after a troublesome night. Today we are to dine with the Hoch's - or rather with Ebenezer, the more acceptable name for whose sake the 2 fellows will put up with the inconvenience of making acquaintance with another house. They liked the Bangalow life well enough, repeatedly asking why there were no Sahebs here, and pleased with my explanation, that the building has been erected for their use and for that of other travellers like them.

I am glad you had an addition to the Church at Cann. and also that the visit for the Tiergirl's sake <? Rasami Tschiruta?>* has ended so peaceably. May the Lord save her and let some good come out of this excitement! Also the news of David's health rejoiceth me. Let Missy now take particular care of the landwind in the mornings. I was pleased with her aunt's etc writing. Your writing to Bale will be just in time. Perhaps I shall also write these days. But my letter for Herm. is not yet commenced! Mglg said about his note: I should have wished to have him here and give him a sound flogging. 
Malayalan people came here yesterday to see the wonders of the place - So I could preach to them a good while. They are from the neighbourhood of Cavay. The boys are well.

It is time now to conclude. Give my love to Heb Diez (whose newspapers have arrived safely) to the dear Youngs and all the friends around you. I am glad to think that I shall soon be back again in the midst of you all. May the Lord give you his peace richly!
 Yours
 H Gundt

