Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing
<Nebst herzlichem Gruß von H.M.>*

5 Balm. 25 March 52

My dear wife

I am sorry, my Nro 2 had not yet arrived when you wrote Nro 4 but I do not think the fault was mine, for I did not know that the post was so much out of order. - So I am glad of Hebich's new steps after his return, that Obrien has gone, and that the Dobbie's are drawn by the Lord. I have had joy to tell of these things to Weigle and to Insp as for the big donation he will find hearers ready to receive it with a greedy ear. - It is well of him to bring David along. I think he is not a man for work now and may yet learn something if he enters the school. - I saw Mrs Young 2 mornings ago, also Mrs Foulis. The gentlemen had paid a visit to me at the same time, so I only met them on the road and could not speak much. I should have liked Carr to apply for the fort adjutant's office so that we would have had the prospect of his staying for some years with us. - How it will go here, nobody can tell - Insp. heard yesterday that Mglg will give up the secretaryship, but did nothing to retain him - then it is possible Hebich may demand me which if Insp wishes it might keep me for the GenlCfce here, but I shall try my best to escape before it begins - for I should not like at all to enter the Genl Conference in this manner not having been chosen by* the brethren. It is a strange place now with so many brethren*! - Our work with Weigle and Ammann proceeds ...eacenbly* - there are differences, but we have not quarrelled as yet. -

I have bought Weigle's pony for 35 It is really good Bühl is nice too - he met with John Shamrao at Mysore and gave a good lesson to him. - I sold the gold to Bunz but at a cheaper rate than the one usually obtaining some years ago. Gold is loosing in value, since there are so many new goldfields in Australia and America. - Greiner remains steadily opposed to Ammann (as presiding over the district) and to Josenhans, without showing it much.* Jos. will certainly have some fight with him. - <Hiller (?)>* to get 3200 Rupees for his voyage, and he will go for ... to London, from thence to America. - Weigle sends Selams, Love from me to you and children  Yours HG

