 Chiracal 27th Oct 1852

Dear papa

Thurday evening Hebich came as usual; but left us before one O'clock as he has much to do with the account. I have no news to give you David is pretty well though very cross. he will but be with Elisabeth. On Saturday I expect here Mrs Young and Mrs Smith. Hanna our new baptised woman has left here this morning with Judah to go to Taliparambu where somebody is wanted, Maria is better; still no repentance apparently. On Saturday morning D.V. Julia shall go to Edacadu with Judah and than to Vadagary were Aline is, Joseph had a letter from her inquiring after her mother, she is still poorly her eyes not yet better, she has gone to Vadagary for change. Mr. Hebich has written to Muller about Julia that she is to see her daughter and stay a fortnight then to return, if Aline will to try a Dr. she may come to Cannanore where she shall be taken care, if she will have a native Dr as she speaks of it in her letter to Joseph they are to pay the expenses, I am glad Hebich wrote about it I have nothing to do but let her go. Yesterday the relations of the new girl <Tschiruta?>* came: I send them off telling them to return to day as H would be there to help, but no body has come, the girl say that she will not go with them she did hide her self when they came.

We are all as usual and everybody send Salams. I enclose here a few notes as you see please to correct them and seal them, at least the one of Mrs Cummin.

Friday morning David was very cross last night I gave him oil this morning. Missy had again pain from having (she thinks) eaten a litte of the children carry. She is not regular in taking her medecine, I made her to take saalts this morning;

Kisses to the sonnely* love from yours
 J. Gundert

