Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal <22 Mrz 52>*
Dear papa

As I was writing to Tellicherry, Fredric asked to Papa you write? is he at Telli? as I said no, he continued to say where where, as I did not answer he then said to Mangalore; at my yes he was not grieved neither did he ask to go there, he sends plenty kisses and Salams, As the children were making noise I said O be quiet for my head is braking Vau looked at me quite amazed and serious and after examination he said Mama head not broken! 
Dear Mr Hebich would have been quite willing to take charge of the boys I. send by him a small parcel containing one box which I desire you to put in Mrs Christ's parcel, and the two other rings please to put them in your mama's parcel. Now you will have enough of paking and doing. Nearly enough also of letters for this is the fourth.

As I hear Mrs Fritz is coming to Telli. I have invited her here through Mrs Muller, whether she comes I do not know.

I just returne from Cannanore said Adieu to Obrion Daniel etc they leave this evening for Palgot. As Hebich was relating how God helped through Mr Robinson for the work there he spoke of Talliparambu, how far he was from having enough to build; and the Commity being in debt we cannot ask more; he then turned to the Dobis who sat on his left hand, and said if you wish help the work of the Lord you have a good opportunity! During the preaching a Mr Dobis I never saw before, the husband of the fine Lady looked very attentive during the preaching. he has just come from Bomby Hebich had great work with lately. After the preaching he turned to Hebich and said I will give 600 Rs but tell it to no one it is a vow. You may imagine Heb's joy. Let Hebich have the joy to tell it himself to the brethren there with you. I thought of giving this letter to Heb. but as he will be long in the way I send it by poste*, he has plenty people going with him David too 
{I Etty will write a catu to my papa. My ambac is well, I learn my lesson pretty well. David is troubling me and pulls me about, my brothers are well too and send kisses and salams.} As the boat cannot go the evening Mr Hebich cannot leave this before tuesday morning,

Guidion has been better these two days, Our neigbour has died. there is a whole hoste of the cast people making the tank, three families every one has made a little house or chaumiere round the tank for themselves. Jacob said that they never rob any thing, they specially live on rats; if they could take all those which trouble as here it would be worthe 
Tell Joseph that his wife has received his letter she will write to him all is well in his house

