Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, p. not pd

1. On board Pattimar Ali Nokda
 27 Oct 1852
Dear wife

How we all went on board you will have heard. Eddy's heart shook in the boat - but Vau was much interested in the seascene at moonlight and asked chiefly if the ___________ was also __________ of the boat. Night very quiet, the morningstar rose when we passed mount __________ - at 8 about we were opposite Hosdrug but then long delay for the seabreeze which at last came from NW and brought us only till Koomla 6 o'clock. There we cast anchor - it looked like rain on the shore but we got nothing, only the landbreeze delayed - at midnight I forced them to take up the anchor - they had slept very soundly - but tho' we were at sunrise opposite Mangalore we are now (11 o'clock bef Noon) not much nearer because the wind is all from the shore and they donot know what to do except wait for any seabreeze if it will come and hang out the flag for the Banderboat. But we are so far off the shore that nobody seems to observe us. From ennui I at least commence this letter. The children are well, never sick in body or mind. F. says ___________________________________________________________________________ ______ - we have finished pudding fowl plantains oranges (from Heb) and 15 Ilanir - bread still plenty, cheese only begun today because children remembered this morning ___________ I gave them _________________ - none vomited except Jacob the Cat. an Ilanir drunk* yesterday morning. Ruth's head is ____________________ so she lies the most time in the spacious Cabin - the Children are very busy to inspect all, Henry has paid 6 pice for Ilanir and 8 for bread. Jacob gave 2 Rs of your money to his wife, and sent the potato man to her - he has 1/2 R taken for himself - Eddy asks ____________ ______________________________ - Vau says he will not go in a Manjil to Mulki - Eddy adds _________________________________________________________ ________________________ - Vau gives Plenty Selam to Mama Mimi etc he once thought of the latter, but without sighing. When asked what to say to all he says ____________________________________________________. Jacob the cook has dreamed of David walking about and seeking for us - I hope he is now better - Eddy eats plenty and has not yet gone out. Vau has been singing Tonden cala vidu and Come to Jesus - with a Tomtom which is hanging in the pattimar. After wards he had a black dog, which came in because I would not allow him to look always through the windows - but now it has run off with laughing and swims after the __________________. - {/ my Selam to my Missy. Paulus Gdt} {Selam to my dear Mam and Mama - Fried. Gdt} 
I. is well and sends love to Rachel and even so cook J esp to Justine - of course both also to you

we arrived at 1/2 past 3 Vau desol‚ because a Mapla wanted to carry him ashore Jacob the Cat. did it, yet was he not comforted till now 1/4 of an hour after our arrival in the Missionhouse and now with plenty Selams also from Mrs Gr
 Yours affly HG

