Rev. H. Gundert, Mangalore

 Chiracal 19th evening <Mrz 52>*
Dear papa

Before all that I do not forget Mrs Buhrer shall pay you 7 Rs 1/4 Mrs Greiner 4 Rs Mrs Amma for shoes and arrawroot 11 Rs 6 ans. I have sent you this morning a letter; but as the Youngs go by steamer this will reach you sooner than by post David has arrived from Tellicherry to see and speak to his bride Ruth. they seam to be happy in the prospec of their union. I do not see or hear any things among the girls; but Missy told me that he wanted to be married long ago, and that Uranie was in his mind formerly. poor Uranie is than again desapointed; but she does show any thing like greaf. I had a letter from Jane she speaks of the trouble they had about Gabriel "and hopes God will comfort them, for all trust in man is vain". I have not given oil lately to Frederic because he passed a little blood and alltogether his motions were much less good than after he had the powders from Dr Fowlies. if he goes to Mang. with Hebi. let the Dr look at him if not try to bring us one or two dozens of the same powders Paul had.

You had I hope a letter from home - do not send it but tell me a bit of the news, and how they are. I was glad and thankful that my little faith had been put to shame in your going to Mang. in deed may God be praised for all his mercies to us. I feel it these days more than before all is mercy, He has kept us till now from the pox which is all round us, our next neighbour has it. on his account the carpenter would not come to day for he said the noise of the hammer will bring his sickness to me being so near. 
Our Jacob is rather displeased to have that sickness so near he said it was a trick of the man to have come here for the sickness took him at a place near Anjercandi, and he has ordered to be transported in this house near us all the other relations have run away. - The boys have been asking where you are, and when you come.

Please to pay to Mr Moegling one Rupee for plates he brought from Calicut I fogot it here. Mr Hebich was sorry he did not go to Tallipa. it was a mistake said he The little Gidion is passing blood for some days I have advised them to show him to the dresser. this will reach you tomorrow sunday I wish you a good day
 Yours. J Gundert.

P.S the caste of people who make tank have come they are measuring and looking, they say that the course of water should be changed in order to stop the mud which is carried every year they will fill up the place where it rushes in now and guide it more down so that the water enters in on the direction of Joseph house. Now Adieu

