Mrs Gundert, Chiracal

2 <Mang 28 and 29 October 52>*

{My dear Mama,

I was very glad to hear that D. calls me Gi, I am well. Selam to my mam and Mama. I read with Jacob and see pictures. Ebenezer often plays with us and serves as horse, he also tumbles with us and then we laugh. Your Eddy} 
{Jacob has brought us _____________ which I like much better than _________ Selam to Mama and Mimi Your Vau}

Today Friday <29 Octbr>* morning I received your interesting letter, for which many thanks. From Greiner's we came in their carriage to Balmatha. This was a joy to both, Vau wanted you to have such a carriage for going to Cann on Sundays. It lightened and rained when we arrived - and as the brethren took out Vau he cried aloud and demanded after Mama - the many faces frightened him - At once Eddy was infected too, though in the bandy he had promised me no more to cry - and began to cry also after you. So I got them into a quiet corner and left them alone. In a quarter of an hour all was quiet. Thursday Ebenezer and Edward Brennen came, the latter much improved - Eb. brown and strong, also giving pleasure to Hoch's - who sent them on my request. That was great joy - the whole day playing and laughing. So you need no more fear about their tender minds. Today Friday I walked with them to the light tower, where formerly the flagstaff stood - met Anderson's children and Chatfield who did not recognize me. Afterwards the Dr <Foulis>* called on us and was very friendly. They had heard of Heb visiting Mrs Smith twice - I hope the Lord may bless that.

I should be very sorry if this Chiruta should have a strong influence on Esther. She ought to be warned. But I trust she may get some sense by and by. Irions left the hills on the 22d so may soon be at Tellicherry. From Weigle good news, but nothing particular - plenty Selam from both Jacobs also to Rachel - he has no letter ready, but seems pleased - He eats with us at table. David Jos's brother seems just now nice also Abrah gives satisfaction. Joseph works diligently Dasen though with better gifts does his things more by fits and starts, tried to look at Mrs Gr's girls as long as they were up here etc - George is at times absent and lazy, Herm childish. Dheiryanatha told a lie yesterday, and got a slap for it before the boys. It was for the first time. He is now put quite on an equality with the boys already for a considerable time. Titus gives satisfaction is cautious and has some influence among the others. On the whole K thinks David <Jakobi>* the most decidedly pious of the youths: and after him Theophil old Jacob's son. But of this more by mouth.

I think I shall on Monday go to Moolky and many will accompany me. It is not yet settled how - most probably by bearers in Mögling's Manjil. Mrs Hoch expects her confinement in Nov. (?) she spent the day with us. Mrs Herm <Kaund.>* is interested in our boys - in a spying prying manner she has looked at me also (I have not yet seen her - nor shall I) and compares Samuel <Paul>* with me - his face quite like a he cat's, as she says, she likes it better than Frederick's because this one is thinner - she also remarked that they are more poorly dressed than Greiners. very interesting news for Mama, you will say! Herm has not written to any one for some time on account of his troubles, but he has now more rest outside and inside. Tell it to Diez who complained that he got no letters from him. 
Mrs Bühler writes to Mörike she wishes to get from you 6 pairs of shoes like the enclosed, six a little larger, six again a little larger, I suppose half and half red and black (18 pairs! all for the daughter. Mörike will not come before the end of Nov. So I shall come without him. With love to all
 Yours HG.

