 <12 Nov 52>*

1My dear Mr W<alker>*

On a visit which I lately paid to our Brethren at Manglore I have met dear Mörike, the intercourse with whom has refreshed my remembrances of your person, and put it into my mind to address you on a subject which it is not very pleasant to take in hand.

My relating at table some conversions wrought amongst Europeans at Cannanore I mentioned that for the purpose of frightening etc one of those gentlemen away from Br Hebich, a silly story had been invented and eagerly circulated, viz. that H. did once take the prayerbook into the chapel and kicked it from one corner to another. Mörike seemed rather surprised and said this seemed to explain a word which Sir W Burton uttered at one of the meetings held under the Bishop's auspices, where the question of Chr. Union had been treated on the whole in a quiet and profitable way until the worthy Judge arose and declared with some excitement of manner that unless there was mutual esteem it was useless to talk of union, and how little prospect of such a thing as Christian esteem, if a Protest. Minister as lately happened, can contemptuously throw down in his Chapel the book of Common prayer, and call the Community that used it a Devil's Church." (I do not pretend to give the very words as M. uttered them, nor was he sure of the exact expressions that were used): M. felt and supposes that others felt likewise, that the hearts on parting were more estranged to each other than when they met, and he could not suppress an idea that our Br Hebich was the person alluded to. I am rather surprised that Sir W Burton should have been permitted to utter such a statement, without being asked the name of the guilty person, or at least his warrant for stating so much as a fact. If union is not merely a fine idea to be talked of, but a precious jewel to be earnestly sought for and in a great measure attainable by the individual surely it becomes everyone to avoid propagating what may prove a slanderous report agst a brother, and throwing vague suspicions into a number of susceptible hearts which do not as yet overflow with love of the brotherhood though they have tasted its sweetness.

The meeting is now dispersed but what has been spoken is still working in many hearts. I do not know if H is the person meant, but the name tho' kept back in public may have been mentioned in private. As I am really desirous after true Christian Union and as I believe you to stand on the same ground, though in ecclesiastical parlance called by another name, as I know moreover that you can better condescend to a German Christian than many of your brethren in the Establishment, I would beg you to counteract the affect these injurious words were calculated to produce.

I feel not free to suggest the ways in which this may be done. Neither do I wish you to go out of your way for this purpose. But first I would beg you to dismiss any disagreeable impressions which that statement (if really relating to Hebich) may have left in your own mind. I am authorized by Br Hebich <- and then you may have opportunity both on the hills and on your way to Madras, to> to say that from 1834 for 7 years he faithfully used the English prayerbook in his ministrations to Europeans, and that even after his being stationed at Cann. in 1841 he continued to read the prayers once a week, until some of his hearers suggested that a freeer mode of proceding (such as in his weekday services) might perhaps prove more acceptable to his congregation. He tried it and they pronounced it a great improvement. Since that time he ministers without the prayers, tho' he has been repeatedly ready to read them to any Congregation to which he could find access by their means. That he at any time threw down or otherwise contemptuously treated the prayerbook, is a mere fiction, such as we are never surprised to hear in a place like Cann, for no conversion of Europeans seems ever to happen here without some new production of fertile fancy on the part of the many idle youngsters at this station. - In a similar way, he denies entirely havg ever called the Church of England a Devil's Church. He has spoken, and has occasionally spoken in strong terms of the Churchdevil, which indeed has seduced many souls away from Christ. As he has often to treat of grosser devils such as the dramdevil, the moneydevil etc, so he mentions also the finer spirits which yet keep a man from being converted or draw him from Christ even after having received grace viz. the bookdevil, the workdevil, the will worship Devil and of course also the Churchdevil. "One says how can I have my Church and therefore avoids a preacher who yet may have approved himself to his conscience one says I am a Wesleyan I must stick to my denomination etc" - Herein he generally dealt without partiality, until the Puseyites teaching finding as much fault with our German Churches of the last years as with the Engl.* forced him to warn particularly against the nearer enemy. - He does it in his own language which I should not always like to imitate, but he has repeatedly tried to obviate false impressions which his thundering, might leave in the hearts by declaring that he is no enemy to the Church of E. that she is as good as his own or any other national Church and that he wishes to stand to other Churches on the basis of Evangelical alliance.

So much I thought it right to say on this point and will only add that though I write with Heb's knowledge, it is quite according to his wish. For he is so accustomed to hear all sorts of reports that altho' he wishes his friends to be prepared to reject and despise them, he will hardly take the trouble of contradicting them. But he wishes to be kindly remembered by you and hopes you are enjoying the mercies and peace of our Covenantgod in Christ Jesus, as it is promised to all broken hearts

Br Muller has asked me ... tell you what I think of Cannan Menon in Anjercandy. I hardly know what to answer. I was somewhat acquainted with him 8 or 10 years ago, when he once even professed a distant desire to become a Christian. But that had soon passed off and since he has kept entirely aloof from us. The last 3 years I have hardly been in Anjercdy and Br. Hebich paid little attention to what does not concern his immediate work. We both have heard that he drinks, but cannot be positive about it. The Christian labourers do not seem to complain of him in particular. They consider it as a hardship that they are still prevented from going to buy their daily necessaries in the neighbourhood of the Tier houses (in the __________) - proclamations have been issued in vain by the higher authorities, and they occasionally think that there is some spite of Cannan or other influential Tiers at the bottom of their being still in a measure (new Government measures) treated as Puleiars, whilst quite apart from the custom of the land recognizes that imaginary pollution as yielding to baptism or circumcision. Other Tiers declare themselves ready to receive the Christians as ________________________, but the higher officers in the plantation appear glad to keep them as low as they can. This may eventually be no harm, though for the present it keeps up a little irritation



1L Gundert Weber Alpinus Haaröht*
Oehler alt T und Eph
Palmer st Schmid
30 Bogen zu 3 Fl von Grimms Wörterbuch
In Homburg Hagnau Spielkönig über 100000
Würtbg Bad scheinen von Darmst. zurückzutreten



2Rev. H Gundert, Cannanur, Mit Cooly retour

Lieber Br Gundert,

Dank für das Übersandte. Chalac.* Zeitung ect. Ich schrieb Dir lezten Sonntag nach Mang. Das hat Dich wohl nicht mehr erreicht. Es stand nichts bes. im Brief. Strange bat mich ihn nach Cheracal zu begleiten, wahrsch. die nächste Woche, denn seine Arbeit ist zu Ende. Wies* ist ob er zuerst nach Can. oder Cheracal geht: Wenn es auf mich ankommt bringe ich ihn zurück nach Cheracal wenn Dirs recht ist.

Gesch.* Jene* werden wohl Morgen hier ankommen, heute sind sie wahrsch. in Chombala.

Den Prisoner Abdoolla hat man gestern freigelassen er hatte Rs* 500 Caution zu geben. Die andren Mitgefangenen sind theils frei theils für einige Jahre in den Jail gesprochen. NS das Ende dieser Geschichte und wohl der Anfang von einer neuen.

Hiermit alles aufs herzl. grüssend
 Dein
Dienstg Nettur*

