Revd H. Gundert, Mangalore, paid

 Chiracal 18th <Mrz 52>*
Dear papa

This morning Hebich returned from the feast He seemed happy though greeved to have had to part from his boys. I was astonished David <Jacobi>* was still with him; but he told me the boy had changed his mind. how many more times he will do the same is still to be seen! What a curious being? he looks quite like his father!

Last night a mad dog came in the coumpound and has bitten nearly all our dogs Nathanael was sleeping on our verandah when his own dog who was lieng by him was seized by that mad one and carried to a distance. Nath is thankful that he has been preserved himself. Our dush, two of the cook's have not escaped but were deeply wounded Rose does not appear to have been touched; but it may be one can not see under her long hair. I was very sorry to have to kill Dush; but what to do if by and by some mischeef had happened not only that I could not have required of the other people to kill their own ones. Natha has first shot his own not with out greef. than our Dush in sayin how much dayavu has this beast done and now it must go. I first thought one might wait to see what will hapen to Dash; but as one could not ever keep him bound it would not have been safe to keep him. Now you have a long story about dogs. but I felt rather nervous at it as we had a bad night first from the noise of the people returning from the feast and than the noise of these dogs for not only in our coumpound: but all our neigbours have had the same story and after all the mad dog is not killed people are afraid and run away. Hebich's carpenter died the other day afer having been bitten by one. If Mr Heb goes by sea he will bring you our boys; but the weather does not seam to be favorable till now. All is here as usual. no sickness thank God. Milka is rather better. Nani is going on well with the girls I like his prayers morning and evening better than those of Joseph. Friday at last a letter from you many thanks for it. It is good for Joseph to learn a little there are difficulty every where not only in teaching the girls. Mrs Y was here yesterday evening they leave here Saturday by the steamer to go to Mang. Our boys do not know you are at Mang they still expect you to take them there. They are thank God as well as we all in good health, my love to all
 Yours
 J. Gundert

1It appears we will also be obliged to kill Rose which has also been bitten I am thinking to buy a gun if we can get a good one, our neighbours whose dogs have been bitten will not kill them though one of them is already half mad. I should like to have them killed when they come in our compound. The gun may also be useful at night to frighten the robbers when we have no dogs. If you think so at least. Now anough about dogs and gun. 
On monday D.V. we will begin the roofs business Joseph house must be intirely covered a new

1Keeping them for some time. I came back very early from Can as I did not like to leave the house and children alone. they were very happy and merry at my return specially as they saw plantains with me Frederic has been very well these days and us all thank God. I expected a little to find a letter from you dear papa but nothing well perhaps tomorrow God has been so gracious to you in the way, he will also help and bless you there. There was some thing very fine to day in Hebich's speach about the love of Jesus and our love to him. As I said but I feel very little little indeed love to him, he said who can boast: but He loves us that is sure.

Monday morning no letter I have receive but one from you

Now Adieu we are all well
 Yours
 J. Gundert

