Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

2 Balmatha 19 Maerz 52

My dear wife

Yesterday at last I received your letter written so soon after my departure and this morning Mgl arrived in Manjil, for the horse he had shod lost its iron again before it reached Putucotta. Rebuke the horsekeeper for having the thing done so slovenly. I hope W. will sell me his pony which is much better. - M<ögl.>* was sorry that Heb had not sent David after all. I wonder why! - His boys will arrive this evening. Hermann <Kaund.>* fell in Becal down the verandah and hurt his head a little so M. allowed him to ride a station after which all became well. - Mrs Groves asks what she owes for the things please tell me. She found Frank's wife much better, in fact sane "she feels as one who has been chastened of God and brought to him by trial" This sounds to me nearly blasphemous. I shall find it difficult to write well on this subject in my answer. - Insp has had a long letter from Ir<ion>* wherein he complains esp. of Hebich's treatment of his people, the money squandering on them and that this vicinity of Cann was one of the reasons why he wished to leave the Tell. station, also Christ Müller finds that he requires days before the evil spirit which a visit to Cann puts into them, is driven out again. Insp's letter seems to have irritated him considerably - and he did not find his remarks founded. I told Inspector that Ir. had never mentioned his complaints to Hebich. Br Hebich would do well if he did pay a visit at Tell and hear their remarks before he comes up. - As for me I shall perhaps leave before the GenlCfce for Insp does not wish others than those belonging to it, to attend at its sittings. But about this more hereafter

Hoch is unwell nervous and irritated and will leave before the GenlCfce to go to Agumbi etc for a change - His wife is to accompany him. I saw them sometimes and heard stories of dear Marie. - Dr Foulis says Searle suffered rather from obstinate constipation than from any liver complaint and he ought to have a change of air before recommencing his work He will talk about it to Hebich when he comes.

I am glad you took Morris' and Rice's children and hope the charge has not been too much for you - On the point you mentioned, as to your words spoken in my presence, I did not feel called upon to tell any thing to Insp - Bonds? no! Bunz will soon come with Buhler. Slates I shall probably get from Hoch, but without wooden frames. Love from all the friends esp Weigle and Ammann who sit with me nearly the whole day - The time for writing this was stolen - With true love to you and all the children
 Yours HG.

I cannot write to Hebich, so please send this to him with love 
