Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

 Cal. 3 Febr. 52

My dear wife

I only could tell you yesterday of my arrival, now I will try to say a little more. We had little wind during the night so that we did not reach Coilandy before sunrise - afterwards there was perfect silence for some hours, from 10-2 PM we slowly went on with a S.W. breeze and were about 2 1/2 in the house. I had myself carried in a chair, in order to spare my strength in fact only Hebich walked through the Bazar. Insp. and the brethren had left for dinner at the Collector's (the Tell brethren had come by backwater in the morning.) In the evening we went to meet them. I on the white horse which I am to have hereafter (I never thought of buying the black one, you saw at Chiracal) This is strong and very quiet. I again wrote this morning.

Irion preached this morning in German. Then came Insp's prayer and the beginning of the conference. The brethren all chose Fritz for president with one accord (except that he chose Ir. and Heb me, as I did Heb). Among the points spoken of Cann. was the first (for he will say all his impressions on the different station) and here they proposed all strongly to have only one orphanhouse for our district. Heb. opposed of course, and in case the Comm. orders the one Institution he must maintain his boys from the Church money. Nothing else of importance. The brethren are nice though somewhat opposed to Hebich. Hoch writes there comes a packet of clothes for you from Basle. What may be the value? you will answer me this when I come. For you must no more answer to this by post. D.V. I hope to leave Thursday evening so as to be in Chir. on Saturday morning, but I cannot as yet give orders whether the horse is to wait for me at Cannanore or elsewhere. 
NB. You best write to Diez, what is the value of the clothes you expect. Any thing will do, it must not be so accurate. - Send to him your notice along with the note which is subjoined here.1

I hear from St.<anger>* that you are left alone as Miss K<egel>* is going to Tell. He also wrote to her to stop there and she will only return with him on Saturday evening. I hope your time of being left alone will be blest to you! Plenty love to you also from H and Mglg. Kisses to the dear children.
 Your HG

