Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, bearing

4 <Mangal.>* Tuesday 23 March <1852>*

My dear wife

Sunday was a fine day, I got 2 letters from you first one from the Youngs, then the other by the post. Yesterday morning we met Greiners on our walk, they were just returning from the country with their girls. (Apropos W<eigle>* brought the Dharwar Girls down, and wishes them to go to Chir. but they will perhaps be divided and Cal. also get a part of them). In the evening the Bührers came up who had arrived from Moolky for breakfast. Gottlob is pretty well, they expected to find Feddy and Nanny and were disappointed not to find them. This morning I went to see the dear Youngs and Foulis, at the same time both came up, so I found only the 2 ladies at home. When we returned for breakfast, Bühl and Bunz had arrived. So you see our house is filling fast. Our work <Liturgy>* proceeds I believe well enough and with the end of this week most of it will be done, so that I hope to return with the beginning of next week. If the children come, they may at once return with me and the trip may still do them good. - Our dear Marie has the surname "frog" - among the Gundelding children

I am sorry David did not come here because I fear Insp judges rightly, that he suffers in his mind and is not quite right in his senses. He ought not to be permitted to change his intention so often. Mrs Y told me how Heb. was after his return I am glad the Lord blesses him with the Dobbies too. - That was a sad story about the dogs. I do not think there is any fear in keeping Rose for a trial, if you hold her bound and observe her eating and drinking. I am only glad Nath. escaped being bitten.

I am glad if you get a good gun - perhaps Diez can procure one through one of the brethren. Let it be a rifle if one is to be had on easy terms. 
On Sunday you will have had the marriage of David <at Tala>*. I hope he will be steady.

I will ask Foulis about the powders for Feddy, but hope that he will become better without using them.

The letter from home was sent to you before I got your wish not to have it. I hope Diez found time to read it to you. - Bührer's and Bühler are quite surprized to see me so well and hear me speak without impediment. Only let us believe and nothing is to be feared of the smallpox, mad dogs or any other evil - we shall get through by the help of our father in heaven. - Amm. and Weigle my 2 fellow labourers greet you, we go on together most happily. The children of the latter seem to go on very well - Carl is called the naughty boy, and Joseph the dear fellow - they are now with Pauline at Hoobly.

There is some talk as if Strange thought Malabar was in a very hopeless condition; he said so to the Brethren after having got many visits from natives - Mglg says I have not to give him any Rupee, as there was some mistake about that plates-story.

Now farewell I hope you are all well and kept in peace by our Lord and Saviour.

Bührer seems very well, smokes again - Degg also smokes The conversation here is nice Inspector cheerful, but still I fear not quite au fait with regard to Mglg. He seems to have a real prejudice against him. Do not write to me any letter after Friday for I hope to leave Monday evening. The Lord be with us Kisses to the children
 Yours HG

