Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseilles and Madras

 Basle 23d Febr 1860
My dear wife

On the 20th when I returned from Beuggen where I had paid a visit with Hebich, Bunz, Spittler etc I found the 2 sons in my room with your letters of the 5th Jan. (They had been delayed in consequence of Strobel's addressing them "via Marseilles" instead of 'via France' which Marie had already written: via Mars. sends them to London, hence the delay. Perhaps he also induced you to stamp them with 1/2 Rup which is just throwing away money). So then your decision has come and you take it as quietly as can be expected. Many questions of course remain, but there is no use in proposing them now to you. In a short time I trust this correspdce will be at an end and we can confer face to face. I shall continue to write weekly as I have done till I hear of your plans for the voyage. But I shall take care not to write what not everybody can read - so that you can order anyone to open the letters in case any should arrive after your departure. - The news of Mrs Müller's death made us all sad; truly Malabar is emptied of old laborers, I wish the Frederic Müller's could once more go out. But what is the use of my wishing. The Lord will take care of his work: and I am glad it is not ours! He has borne with us and we are still standing - or at least creeping on in our pilgrimage, for which His name be praised as well as for the peaceful departure of all that have gone to their rest! - I hope you have got down safe in spite of the trouble with carts and Coolies. You will also get over the vexations connected with the farewell and breaking up of the establishmt. Surely God will help you in the way you want it, by guiding your decision and giving dear Marie the resolution she wants, by assisting you at the right moment thro' his children, yea and by His enemies also. We need not take things in a more difficult way than they are meant! for surely the whole earth is the Lord's, and we pilgrims can be just as safe in body and soul on board Pattimars and ships, as on shore and in the midst of our accustomed occupations. I have now accustomed myself to being laid aside, and can take it as a mercy that I am treated as a child though I am hardly used as a servant or workman. Still of late I have been able to do more work by occasional help to Ostertag in his publications. Also for Lacroix's life which his son in law (Mullens of Calcutta, at present in London) is going to publish I have this day dispatched all the contributions that are to be found in the Basle Mission Archives. This is little indeed, but if I can now and then work on half a day I am content and hope, in God's own time I may again become more effective. You needn't fear that you will have no occupation. First there are the sons. Frederic when you get this is already 13 and will soon have to seek employment. Paul and David will require your cares. The 2 elder sons may also still be helped a little - and gradually the Lord will open new doors for us as we may be enabled to improve the opportunities given. Let us then take new courage and take the change as being truly meant for our joy and glory, and not for a chestisement.

I heard from Fritz (5 Febr) just as he was leaving Tell. for Cann. Also Mögling wrote from Mang. Inspector tells me that Sauvain again applies for leave to go to America - Hebich has now been forbidden the pulpits of Baselland: the order came out just as he was preaching in one of their churches (at Fraenkendorf) but the minister managed to let him finish his sermon in spite of the opposition of the secular authorities. In Switzerld even the good people are afraid of him, so sure they are that his appearance will rouse the anger of the Radicals and Infidels and excite them to commit some outrage. I believe he will however try Berne and Zürich before he goes to Wurtemberg. English people at Bonn have invited him to come there. On Monday (20th) we had a fine day at Beuggen where old Papa Zeller was very glad to have him addressing his people. Bunz was also delighted with his visit. Hebich will stay with him at Stuttg. which is of course rather a grief to the Müller's, but in reality a favor shown to them, for he is a most troublesome guest and requires continual service, as soon as he begins his work. He never goes out alone here, but has always his ministering angel, a Mr. Hunziker who is paid for it by friends. How he will do in other places I do not know, but of course our pious people would look askance on such a style of life. He drinks also good wine - like myself, (Mr Zellweger of the Committee always supplying me with a dozen of Bordeaux when ever the old batch*1 is finished); in the evenings he smokes (...ll it not ... Gath etc), dines every day ... another house* and* keeps* no family hours... No doubt a good number of persons have ... converted and this is the chief matter.

How glad the sons were to hear of your coming* after asking so often ... vain: No letter from India* This I needn't describe to you. They get good testimonials at School, David has been the 3d, Paul also got a higher place, and is distinguished by greater diligence altogether they strive to give you pleasure when you come, that it may be clear that they deserve being taken along to our new home.

Pf Meuret is kind to them. Both wept much when the news came of Mrs Müller's death, M. seems to have remembered the separation from his own 1st wife. Farewell dear wife and may the Lord lift you graciously over the next few months and bring you safely to
 your HG
