 Calw 29 Aug 60
My dear sister,

I arrived safely at Calw, where nobody expected me, so that I had to carry my bag home - they excused themselves with Barth having said that I would probably arrive in the evening from Mühlacker but you know well that this is but a poor apology for a grievous want of love. Their minds were set on washing! There was no dinner for me, coffee was deemed sufficient for the poor husband, who might have starved if there was no beer nor saussage to be had at Boeblingen. Well by a wonder I am still alive in spite of all these hardships. But I punished them well by sitting Monday evening in a company of Ministers till 7 1/2, so that when I returned the children had to jump out of bed to welcome me. Only Freddy had at 4 gone to Barth's and greeted me there. Tuesday they had rain to astonish them - my companion, the barrister Klinger of Calw had already complained of the weather being so "schwülstig" - but about noon it cleared up, and all the wash was dried in the evening.

Today they are ironing. David's testimonials are: "behavior good, only some times too lively". He still catches fish for the celestial being! Herm and Sam have written nicely. - I read Papa's letters - for I could not well sleep at night, so managed to get through them in no time - and find there is nothing whatever in them to prevent your reading the whole. Towards the end there are allusions to a certain A.B. which I suppose would still require being dealt with tenderly. But you won't talk of names to be sure and all the other subjects are treated in a manner which would admit of the whole series being printed almost verbatim Farewell now, and love to all - If you like I shall always correspond with you in English. Wishing you much joy grace and peace
 Your brother H.

Samuel's office is Schreibmaterialienverwalter or Commissioner of writing materials or Administrator of Stationery. He has also to fabricate ink for the use of the house. In English he has been examined and permitted to join the higher class, which is drilled very severely by Mr Mosley. Hebich was driven out of the Zurich Churches, but is admitted to the Hall of the Methodists where he is safe, as that building enjoys the protection of the American Government. So writes Samuel about the transactions at Zürich. Salute aunt Vike and Jette and excuse my having bought the Atlas instead of bidding farewell to them as I had promised


1Herr Dr. Barth Calw.
Wird gebeten, gefälligst zu thun wie verabredet.
Mit herzlichem Dank und Gruß.
 Theodor Weitbrecht.

