 Stutgard Sept 29. 1860

My beloved Tantele

In your own house I have the joy to write you these few lines; to express you my best wishes for your birthday. Yea rich blessings our dear Lord's presence continually, the Chief and the first in all your earthly joys. 
We miss you here sadly, your picture lately made though very ressembling and very nice does not fill up the void, in the contrary When I look at it my heart runs after you and would fain to embrace that dearest and precious Tantele.

We were greatly rejoiced to have news from yourself and about the dear Circle you are a member at present, though we trust you will not forsake us too long. Your beloved Mama as ever is full of tenderness and greatest affection. I almost wander you can live away from her at least that you could stay so long with us in Calw. My dear husband has felt deeply your absance, and has been longing and sighing for news from Barmen.

The news about our dear boys Mama gives you I trust* or rather I am sure; Marie is going on nicely. papa probably comes here on the 3d for a conference of Ministers. We shall leave this happy home D.V. towards the end of next week or in the beginning of the following. Dear Ette is kind enough to give me daily one hour of German: Remember me most kindly to our dear brother and sister with kisses to the dear little ones.

As Frederic wishes to write too I leave him room and with most kind wishes remain my precious Emma
 yours affectly
 J. Gundert
1Liebes Tantele

Ich will Dir auch einen kleinen Brief schreiben weil Dein Geburtstag bald ist will ich Dir gratulieren zu Deinem neuen Jahre. Bist Du glücklich in Barmen angekommen und bist Du jetzt auch gesund? Daß wir jetzt in Stuttgart sind wirst Du vielleicht wissen. Wir sind den Mittwoch nach Maichingen und am Donnerstag noch nach Stuttgart. Es grüßt Dich Dein Dich liebender Neffe  Friedrich Gundert.
