 Calicut 19th February <60>*
Dear Papa

Three days ago we got yours of January written from Basle. The dear boys will be disapointed to find so much delay in our coming home, so am I, but what can we do. to have gone overland would have taken fully 500 Rs more than what the Inspector told Pf to pay for us 1800. I hope the excelsior will leave before the 20th of March. Meanwhile as there is still time we go to see in haste the stations: for I wish to see the congregations of Cannanore, Telli, Chom. and Coilandy. We go D.V. first to Coilandy next day to Chomb, next day to Telli the folloving to Cannanore from which we shall return by sea to save time; The news about dear Hebich gave us joy. I like to hear Samuel gets good from it. By Gods grace Marie is also going on and comes with me which was already my mind before I got your letter. to stand alone here would not do. We shall be all happy to make one family together We want but patience now to be reunited if God brings us safe home. 
It is already very hot at night can not sleep well from the heat. The Pfleiderers who left us friday will not have gone far there is no wind. Miss Will came by steamer and stayed here 5 days, I was glad to see her, she has profitted and is nice, she feels our going very much. Abraham from Taliparambu wrote a nice letter. I hope to see him. Ann will take care of Lydia, Mrs Grant will pay some thing for her, The big Lydia has been married last Friday to the son Salisberry the school master of Con. english school he is a quiet nice young man Lydia I trust may be a blessing to the family. the mother is still very dark and heathen like,

David is right to be assured that I will devote my time to them in all I am able, certainly with joy shall I do it. but the dear sons will be desapointed in their poor mother. Oh may God soon bring us together, I am very sorry to hear you had again bad days after such good ones at Calw. do you care much for your food? I have written to Strobel to enquire for a tigre skin. Beutler is on the Hills. We will also try with Mr Grant; but he has gone to meet the Governor on the hills. Now with a tender kiss to the dear boys and yourself Thanks also for their letters.
 Yours Julie Gundert

A word from you to Mr Linder in London might help us in our arrival there to pass the lagage on without passing to the custom house and send telegram of our arrival
