 Calicut 16th March 60
Dear papa

Your two letters of 25 J and first F. came at the same time almost, many thanks for all. The paper I have sent last time is to be sign by you and returned to Madras. Mariam and the widow of Salisb are to be married it is evident that they lived together. We have sent news of the school to Mr Nagel for the last. Did I tell you that Henry is the great man of Shlunk and Joseph his shop keeper, he looks some what brighter than he did at Mangalore. Daniel and Israel are still the same.

The duty on shuruts is imense 20 Rs on the worth of six Rs. every body who has the income of 200* Rs a year must pay six per cent Grant has 50 per month to pay.

Mr Glasson came from Vynad brought with him young Ades who looks out for a piece of ground to begin a plantation. I just hear to my grief that the Ship will not leave this probably before the 5th of April. Our dear sons may become cool in their long anticipation.

Yesterday we got yours of the 8 Jan, we are very glad to hear about Hebich, we send the news to all the friends.

We have already four boxes filled with books we expect the fi[f]th from Mangalore.

I thank the Lord the way is opend to go home, I fear after some years I would not see any more if my sight continued to decrease as it does. On the hills it was much better than here.

Our journey from the hills cost happily very little to the Comity, for Mr Bennet paid our Vandies. No wonder that Hoch's journeis cost much, and the outfit must have been trimendous, tailors only, some hundreds. 
Carr has sent us two gowns made for the prists Parsis it will be a curiosity at home. I send you in this the 300 Rs he has given us. Afterward Convert or Pf will send you the last bill 270* or or 80 Rs. they belong partly to Marie and to me. I dare say I shall not be too tender to the boys; though perhaps they will know the way to gain and even rule me! 
I am troubled and nourvous about the Ship. which is still in Cochin, and much Cargo to take here.

With love to you all
 yours affectly
 Julie Gundert
