<Fräulein Ema Gundert, p Adresse Herrn Docktor Gundert in Calw>1 <sollte wenigstens da seyn>2 <d. Güte>1

 Calw 11 Sept 60
My dear Emma

"there will Adolph" where Adolph will - or there A. will "till Cölln" as far as Cologne (till is only temporal) where we shall be till - stop till - "till Wupperfeld" go on to Wup. - 8 o'clock in the evening = 8 PM (Post meridiem, a latin expression, as A.M ante m. for the morning) - "He may do what please him." No doubt! for who is to hinder him. But you meant probably to say May He do what pleases him! and to that I give my assent! - Ernst came unexpected(ly.) - to bad - too bad. catched cold - caught it rather. - Dr Barth is today better after he had been very ill. - so a kind letter - such a kind l. or: so kind a letter. vacations? no: holidays (Plur) or vacation (Sing.). So now try and make it out.

I pity poor Ernst and the Repetents. What if I know even that Pressel had been appointed by the King to Esslingen, but the Consistory would not agree to it! The good men at Tüb ought to learn how one pleases Kings: an art which is not very popular in Universities.

Sunday I preached at Stammh and had a Miss[ionar]y meeting in the afternoon. The boys with Mama came after dinner Mary had accompanied me in the morning. Afterwds I was with Prelat <Moser>* and Dean <Haberle>* at Rieger's, and saw also his uncle Dörtenbach who lately lost his wife. Old Thudium at the inn on the road to Hirsau, being very ill with dropsy has shot himself this Sunday the poor man fancied that death was an end of every thing, and so made an end to his pains. He could have lived but a few days more if he had waited for death to summon him! Julie feels cold indeed, but we do not as yet warm our stoves. - Barth expects Zaremba today but other visitors are un peu de trop, and he is glad if they do not come. The Dr. <Müller>* wished me to write into every direction, that his patient ought to be left alone, undisturbed by visitors; But I donot know if that would have been of great use. You may mention this occasionally at Mr Chevalier's. It may prevent some untimely visit. Now farewell. Do not stop too long away from dear Swabia and
 your H.
