Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Madras

 Stuttg. 7 Jan 1860
My dear wife

I wrote you last on the 1st and have nothing else to communicate about our children as I left them on the 2d. Still there was something strange on that Newyear's day. Hebich was to preach in the hall of the house: I had been invited beforehand to Ostertag's and went. Got a plate full, which enabled me on my return to arrange a new gift for the 3 fellows. These had heard Heb. and before going to the Kinderhaus they ran for a moment up to my room: Paul "but he preaches powerfully" David "You have to go to Calw and Dr Barth is dead, I know now what was in that letter Inspector showed you today" Freddy "Do we also go to Calw?" It was a great confusion and they had to depart at once. Afterwards I found that somebody had sent notice of the death of Dr Bauer at Muhlhouse, and the portier had mistaken it for Dr Barth. Inspector hearing of this sudden death in the hall, told the auditory of my new vocation and asked them to pray for my health - Hebich improved this still farther in his sermon. So then the whole plan has become public before even you knew of it, and the children know it too. All through a stupid mistake. I shall tell the boys that if they get good testimonials they may accompany me to Calw, but if Mr Meuret complains of their behavior they must stop at Bale. - Well on the 2d early I started for Calw - alone, as Inspector felt too unwell - I also had a cold, but delighted in a trip as this has often benefited me. Ate a soup with Sutter at Carlsruhe, who at once approved of the whole plan and sends you Christian love. Had to go 5 hours by common carriage before I reached Calw in the evening - where Barth, Helfer Rieger, Dr Zeller of Nagold and other fds were sitting together. On the 3d we met. Notary Wiedmann and Manufacturer Schauber, with Barth and Zeller formed the Comm. I said my thoughts freely, but could not utter the wish which Josenh had expressed of taking notes of all the proceedings. They were rather informal, Barth hardly opening his lips, whilst we others had all the talk to ourselves (and he the labor to himself). Anyhow we got acquainted and, I dare say, on the whole not displeased with each other. Saw also the 2 sets of rooms which may be hired at this season: preferred one with ample rooms though prospect be wanting, had some fear for you, how you would like the narrow valley and our place there overhanging the stream Nagold and the last bridge of the town. It is all very different from what we were accustomed to - no garden - no seclusion from outsiders - but I dare say it will still be tolerable and may prove a paradise to the soul with love and gratitude. I also saw Miss Weitbrecht, an Underhaeusler who had been at Kornth with Marie and sent her plenty love. Since the death of her mother she cares for her Papa's whole household. The 4th I staid with Barth and saw something of his labors according to their kinds. (Oh I must not forget to say what that letter contained which accordg to David Inspector showed me on Newyears day - Publish it not in Gath - P Mayer of Lyon asked news about Hebich, he had behaved so strangely, that he should like to know whether he was - mad.) 5th by post to Stuttg. With me went 2 pious Stuttgardters (Ernst Roser and Hernhuter Tanner), and part of the way a peasant who had been sent by his village to Bale to fetch from there an illegitimate child deserted by the mother in one of the Lyon hospitals. The child was but 7 months old and the French Govt demanded the cost of its support from Würtbg - after many letters between the authorities the matter was arranged and Simmozheim enriched by the addition of a fatherless girl. That made us think about the great difference which God makes between child and child - how much ado about one - how entirely neglected an other! passed thro' Leonberg under snowlumps dropping heavily from the sky - then home by way of Feuerbach. Sister Emma had been at the post, but would not wait, as it was rather cold, but I soon met them all, Emma on the point of going to look a 2d time after me. On the 6th I remained quietly at Stuttg, Leipoldt Müller and others held forth at Kornth in favor of Missions. As regards my health I made in these days the best I could of my cold - the real wonder was that the lower story seemed quite at ease whilst the chest was oppressed. I had the quietest nights at Calw, and even here very few symptoms of any irritation remaining in the bowels. The Bourdeaux wine, a present of Mr Zellweger is also doing its work. But it is a good omen at any rate that for many months I have not been so free from disease as during the 2-3 days I spent at Calw. Received today a letter from the boys that Heb began his daily preaching in the Elisabeth Church on the 3d - the church quite crowded - Saml deeply impressed, people full of joy, many of the respectabilities somewhat shocked. Herm had been prevented by cold from attendg. I visited yesterday the Cultusminister Rümelin and begged him kindly to overlook any irregularities which my friend Heb. might be reported of committing - he inquired after his ways rather interestedly, and said as regards seeing the King, that he does not like extraordinary beards. But we shall see how that will be. 
Dr Harrison has kindly written from Edinburgh. He is very weak, but more alive to his spiritual ignorance than before, and thanks me very heartily for my talk on the way. I hope his soul is really founded on the rock. Mrs Holloway's baby recovered his health: the little fellow has doubled his weight. Inspector has written to F. Müller that Fritz comes at last! Mrs Müller waits some time before she executes your commissions. Love from the whole house to you both and so with tender kisses to wife and daughter farewell
 Your1
