 Calw 19th Nov <60>*
My dearest Yette

Many thanks for your kind note written in german. I like it very much; but I am not able to answer it in German Since the days are so short I find no time to learn at least not regularly, if I was able to read the evening I would learn, but I cannot with the light! I am indeed glad that our boarder is a good boy as far as nature goes. Paul is his favorit as they share the same bedroom.

I regrett to hear Miss Trudel is not coming to Stutgard as I had hoped dear Mrs. Moeg. might see her. (entre nous seul soit il dit) How is dear Mrs. Kern with her young lady? As often as I read the preachings of Professor K. which is almost every day at least one page of them; (for I like them very much) I think of his dear Wife your Aunt Mrs. Irion had a sister who after the birth of her two first children each time became like Insane so that they were in great distress for several months. She recovered entirely and the Symptom of madness did not reappear at the birth of other children. I hope your dear friend Mrs. Kniewel may soon be restored to a sound and happy mind. A stay with Mr Blumhard will do her good no doubt.

I do regret that I can not go on dilligently learning German; but there are so many things in the way. The beginning of the winter has also some what trying for my nerves specially the dampness, however I have to thank God to be as well as I am.

But I must say Adieu With love to your dear Mama and yourself I remain  Yours affectly
 Julie Gundert
 20 Nov 1860
1My dear Jette

So Dein Brief has been some days lying in High Street! Yesterday it came to hand. As for the way of treating Holy history, I think you better carry it on as you have done, till you perceive the necessity of a change. If they have in English a Paragraph Bible and you compare it with the Calwer Bibelwerk, you will find a thread that leads you easily thro' the more intricate parts of Scripture history. But I know little of methods, and do not care much about them, as long as you have a single pupil to deal with. Nor does it matter much if you change the method with every new period of the history you are teaching. I mean that the mind may be equally benefitted by dwelling minutely on some particulars, whilst other chapters are skipped over very lightly. If she only becomes at home in Scripture! 
I do not look to any promises in the Gospel for those who died in their sins. What can I say to God, except I know Thee in Thy Son, and what thou doest is right and holy, and I am and remain crooked and unholy. Shall not the judge of all the earth deal righteously? Will not the Savior who seeks the lost, save to the utmost even beyond what he announces? I can wait on Him and rest in His known Character. What he deems right, he will also make to appear such to me. Soon it will be over and we shall know as we are known. - Plenty love to your good Mama, and may she have a green old age, as the English say, but in a better sense accordg to Is. 40,31. 
 Yours affly
 H.G.

