 Basle 1 Jan 1860
My dear wife

Your rich letter packet of the middle of Nov arrived 24 Dec. Many thanks for it. From Vevey came une voix Chretienne (Rochat) Fr Mlle Durand feuilles Relig 1858 Fr Mme Cuenod Hunziker. 6 bas pour Mr G. 8 paires de bas pour Mr Hebich These I have kept. Then for the school (Chiracal stood on the paper) 14 chemises 10 casaquins (Jaquets) 13 jupons. This I will acknowledge when I write to Marie Monnard about the new turn our affairs are taking. I hope Fritz comes with the party for a long voyage might do him a deal of good. It might have been also the better for me. Moerike has written nothing about himself but good news otherwise may he be enabled to stay yet some time before Würtele is able to replace him. I went on the 24th to the Kinderhaus, where the gifts were preparing for the children with a gift from Ostertag to the whole institution, representing a Bethlehem. I dare say Marie knows it. Saw Mrs Albr whose boy is now decidedly recovering; but still extremely weak. The boys were glad as you may fancy tho' the presents were moderate. They sang nicely, I prayed. Returned to the Mission house where I also got a book from Josenhans. It was a nice evening. 25th a Brother Leigeb who preached his first sermon died by a sudden apoplectic stroke at Olten, was brought in (dead) on the 26th and buried 28th. 27th I dined with Zaremba at Christ Sarasins, where I felt Heb's coming was regarded with some apprehensions by many old Balois. They are here very churchy leaving little liberty to a bird like Hebich who does not care for forms. In the evening Heb came quite unexpectedly at last. He had only a new hat, otherwise the old collar, old flannel coat, old umbrella white black and mud on the white - the stick somewhat shortened. His health excellent, he drank beer and wine on board and since then, yea he even smoked at Nice. With Mrs. Sandeman and others he had had fine communion at Cannes, but his chief work at Nizza (where uncle Francois spends the winter, but unhappily they did not meet!). There he lived with a Baron Uxkull, saw many great people, more Germans and Russians than English: found all doors open esp to the Dowager Queen of Danemark, Duke of Augustenburg, prince of Oldenburg, Catholic and Greek Christians - preached to them half days in their houses and saloons and brought to the Committee a gift of more than 1600 Fcs collected in those parts. This was welcome as there is some scarcity in the Miss-[ionar]y treasury, people being persuaded that we have enough and to spare on account of the large buildung and the 400000 Fcs presented last year! Heb. was with Chevalier Bunsen for some moments, who kissed him - they also prayed together. There he might have heard of Olga, but of course he knew not how interested some body would have been in news from that quarter. 28th Heb is presented to the Comm. which went off very heartily. He will be about 3 years in Europe, visiting Germany England etc. and hopes the Lord will have work for him. 30th The boys received their presents from Stuttg. This time I am of course also one of the boys and the gifts came richly. Tomorrow 2d Jany I am to visit Calw, in order to talk with Barth and hear about all the details. Insp. was to have accompanied me, but he has been taken ill with cold etc So I shall be alone. Of course I shall also see the dear Stuttg people, but all in a hurry since I think it important to remain with the children as long as possible. They visit me often and are very happy - only Paul and David regret that Fred is more attached to Joh Muller than to them. Of course Joh M is more pliant than the 2 sturdy brothers. Herm. is I think in a happy state and leaves off many of his hobbies. Sam. is much with Heb. accompanying him on his daylong visits. Now farewell once more. May the Lord make this a year of many blessings to us and take glory to Himself in His wonderful kingdom among the children of men.

Love to all
 Your HG
