 Calw 28 Sept <60/61?>*1
My dear wife

Only now 5 1/2 PM I discover your letter on my table, laid where I never was led to seek them. It arrived probably in the morning. I am glad the boys made their way in safety Nothing great happened here, except today the funeral of the Hausvater (Dingler I beleive is his name) we had not heard of his death: nor even that he got worse again. Yesterday the boys went with torches to the summit of the hill behind Barths and we saw them from our house, rather a pretty sight, as they came down the hill, whilst the Nagold doubled the shining lights. - I have written to dear Pauline that I had settled with you on Thursday 4 Oct, except she write against it You see she asks if Yette might not accompany you. Try what you can do. - All is well at home Mary is to accompany me to Herrenbg, go in the morning and come in the evening - I do not think that it would do well to go to Stuttg for so short a time as I could allow her to be away.

If D. is not obedient, just shut him up for a time where the others are left to go out and have an amusement. But I hope he will submit without that. There was a letter from Bale which I had given to Fred to give to Mr Reinhdt to read en passant, but it had an envelopp directing it to you, after being read there. I hope you got it safely. The boys will have been very tired on Wednesday. I wonder they got so much strength remaining on Thursday! -

My intention is to leave this with Rieger early on Tuesday so that we go by way of Leonberg and reach Stuttg about 2 PM by post. I shall try to remember the boots

Love to all
 Yours affly
 HGdt
