 Calw 1 Nov. 60.
My dear Jette

Many thanks for yours of Monday. As regards Ostertag's view concerning the English Govt in India, I would say, that there is every reason for agitating such questions in Engld in order to obtain as much in the way of concessions as the Evangelicals can wring from a wellmeaning, but on the whole indifferent Cabinet. For our German meridian the question is quite different. Our country men are already accustomed to look upon the English as a proud and tyrannical nation, and are inclined to pity the Hindoos to have fallen into such hands. How happy India would be under German Oberamtmann's OA Richters and Umgeldscommissaeren! I must say that I think the Govt of India - at present - as good as it can be under the circumstances, and suppose we might do better in ventilating questions nearer to our skin, than those regardg the indroduction of the Bible into Govt Schools in India. Suppose even, it was introduced today what are the Heathen and Muselman teachers to do? Shall we allow them - or order them to expound Scripture to their classes? Or shall we rule that all teachers must be Christians? Then what is to be done with the RCatholic teachers? etc In this way one question leads to many others - which shows that the difficulty is not to be got over by a formula of one kind or other. I wish many things to be different from what they are in India, but I would not even hint, that the Govt there is guilty of having hindered the success of the Mission. Shame to the Christian Church, if so slight a pressure as that exercised by a professedly neutral Govt should be thought answerable for the slow progress of its work of evangelization!

Marie speaks of a boy we are to take. A Minister Desselberger has asked me to take his son, about 12 years of age, that he may visit the school of the preceptor, and I have consented. But I have not yet the answer of Mr D. and did not think of informing You or any friends of the matter before it had come to some issue.

Barth is at Nagold, from whence Dr Zeller is to accompany him back tomorrow. Best love to your dear Mother and and the High Street people! Alas for Emma, I knew it they would be backward to part with her in a hurry 
 Good night
 Your H.G.
