Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay

 Bale 1 Febr 1860
My dear wife

Thanks for the 2 letters received on the 30th. I am gradually getting stronger, must now work for Ostertg as he is ill, and can do it for some hours, tho' sleepily enough. Brandy I have not used for a long time: cigars reduced to 1 or 1 1/2 the day for the last month: I have promised to finish with it, if it should only be for Hermann's sake who sticks out for the occasional smoking, tho' he will not acquire the habit. - Pfleid. will get the money for Mrs Grant's Harmonium from the Calicut Station. - I have not yet written to the Young's and am ashamed of it. Now I send thro' you Heb's photograph for them: give them some news and send it, and I shall try to write them the next time. - Heb's story has made an immense sensation. The newspapers got hold of it and now every day brings some article or advertismt about him. The enemies supposed they had triumphed, since the Presidt of our Comm. had for a time stopped the services on acct of the disinclination of Pastor Kündig to give his Church for such scenes. But the people wanted Hebich - and a whole week Inspector, Comm.members, Pastors, Police etc had no rest. Marriott affronted Mr. Christ, saying it was a double shame in him to stop the services. The Comm. had a hard fight, split as it was in 2 parties: the Bale members feared even a revolution as the Radicals tried by all means to improve the opportunity. The clergy were mostly agst Hebich, but some preached for him, "an old sinner" told in the newspaper how he had been converted thro' H's stirring addresses, and feared he must henceforth avoid the somnorific sermons lest he fall asleep again: the most shameless distortions of H's expressions were collected and circulated thro' the town, some of the rumors publicly contradicted by believers, and all the while people crowded more than ever to hear H. in halls and other places where he held forth day by day. The Comm. at last got the Church opened for H. but not in the evening time to the great grief of the laboring population. At last one pastor offered Martin's church for the evening also: and that will now be chosen for the continuation of the services. Many voices are of course heard pro and contra even very good people complain of H's language - not scriptural enough - too blunt in certain cases - no notice taken of the labors of others - also why the beard - why the Bubenkragen? - could he also listen to the sermons of brethren, as he wants every one to listen to his - why visit the slaughterhouse (of the butchers) and inns? - if he goes into the enemy's territory, he cannot complain of reprisals - etc On the other hand pastors and authorities have been overwhelmed with proofs of these despicable sermons having been blessed to many souls. Even Pastor Kündig in granting again his Church called them "reich gesegnete Vortraege", and the Burgomaster and Antistes promised petitioners to secure to them the uninterrupted liberty of enjoying this extraordinary treat. H. will however see that the opposition in Europe is much fiercer than in India: the newspapers lie so boldly that christian friends from Zürich St Gall etc who had already asked for Heb, have now written to deprecate his coming as they do not wish for such excitement. The Carneval is to come off here by the end of the month. Newspaper advertismts show that a large share of its attention will be devoted to representg the beard in his pelisse with furcap and a long shawl. But before that time H. will be off, first it seems to Bern, where they have a free Church so that H will there clash less with existing Church institutions. He is in good health, nearly the whole day out and visiting or preaching, and when at home besieged by crowds of visitors.

Mama and aunt begin already to purchase for me furnitures and things where they can be got. You will not forget to bring me the Mal. Dictionary written in 3 parts. Also the rough copy of the Grammar written for Arbuthnot, which my writer Rama had and was to have given to Convert. - Mrs Glasson has written me a kind letter. She appears to expect him back in May. Then he might almost accompany you. I shall continue writing till I hear definitely how your plans are arranged. Don't allow packed boxes to stand long in India. Mrs Deggeller's things were nearly eaten by white ants (at Cochin?). God help you thro' all difficulties

Love to the brethren.
 Ever yours HGdt
