Miss Emma Gundert, Stutgart

 Calw 13th August 1860
My beloved Tantele

Accept my sincere thanks for your dear kind letter, which was indeed very nice. I trust you will continue to write me often and tell me much about dear Mama and Tante to whom I send a tender kiss, our dear Samuel will have a great joy with you. how quickly the time passes, they are already to leave us those dear sons! You are becoming a clever Cookmaid; well I am also learning every day some thing with Marie and though I have not much hope ever to become a real good Cook still enough for our want.

I learn every day with Marie from 8 to 9 o'clock it is a hard business, however it comes Allmählig einwenig Geduld muß ich lernen, willeich wenn ich hätte es gelernt wenn <als> ich young war es wäre nicht nöhtig jetzt geduld zu lernen.

Dearly beloved Tantele when do you come again to us? I fancy we have not been kind enough to you so you will no more come to naughty people who do not value their guests.

Paul does not play much piano; but I must confess that they are somewhat better than they were so when you come back you will be enchanted with their good behaviour, Frederic is truly becoming a nice boy obedient, affectionate, and learns diligently, he makes great friendship with his papa, they do not quarrel any more in their beds are pretty much contented with their corners

We have had many Cakes made quite plain with heidelberre, we have now and then potatoes which is a great treat for us all, also plums 12 vor one creuzer, Fruits of every sort is soon to be found in the market, 
Today I finish I trust all the drawers we had cut together that is 12 pairs. After ward I will begin shirts for our boys that is for the two bigger ones it will also be good for Marie to learn to soew one entirely herself. I hear that dear Jette is coming to us, I trust I shall also learn a little German with her. Will not her dear Mama come too we have room enough the change might do her good.

Now dear tantele I must say Adieu I wish you many rich blessing during your early quiet hours, We continue our little meetings, the three sisters Wöhrle come by twin and pray, Also a Miss Kapler. Love to all our dear relations "...savasans dire" to dear Mama and Tante a most special Maria sends to you all a schön Grüß Yours ever affectionate
 J. Gundert

Tell please to dear Mama to send us by Ette 6 or 8 pound of sugar in powder white like the last it is very nice. We had Syrop made with it Heidleberre syrop for papa



1Liebe Emma

Marie Wöhrle kam zurück läßt Dich herzl. grüßen, Marie Weitbrecht auch. - Hiemit eines Deiner Taschentücher, das ich irgendwo fand - Herzliche Grüße an Alle mit Liebe Deine ergebene Nichte
 Marie
