 Calw 5th July 1860
Dear Papa

As these letters have just come I send them the others concerning Mr Gompertz I keep here till you come. I have spent the afternoon in Mrs Wöhrle with the bride <Miss Jälin>* of Mr Burchardt and his mother she looks young though she is 27 already She learns English with Mr and Mrs Muller; but she understands little of it She seems to be a nice person. Mr. Schweikart was also there who sends love to our sons, he regretted not to see you. Is a bride found for Convert? but I must wait with my questions till you komme. 
We are thank God all well, the Söhnele sehr ordentlich sie haben gefragt ob sie können hier bleiben für immer.

Emma goes on in English very well, has no heimweh at all after her Mama. 
Regarding Mr Lasserre it would be some wat difficult with so little room as we have, if it were a girl no difficulty with Marie they might be in one room; and if a better food was necessary for Lasserre it would not do for us, however you may do what you think right.

I hope you have a good time with our sons Love to all the people or rather friends, there Mr Schweikard said that the vacation was to begin next monday, in this case Samuel would comme with you and Herman would comme with Marie from Stutgart,

Love from the household, the boys are very busy searching or gathering Murtiles Heidelberren for themselves and for you.

I hope you are not too much fatigued nor worse than when you left this 
Adieu Yours aff
 Julie Gundert

It is very cold and glumy here, fogs the whole for noon like in October 
