 Basle 16 Febr 60
My dear wife and daughter

I had fancied your letter on the subject of my November news must come to hand before I write you this time, but as I see it won't, there remains nothing for me but to write as well as I can without having anything to answer. The last time I wrote to Young. It was Inspector's birthday and we had a nice day of it. Heb came also for an hour to sit with us at the Inspector's. Since then I had a cold and in consequence (so it seems at least) again some very good nights and better days than usual. It may also be the fruit of my being again active and diligent. For as Ostertag is still somewhat out of order he gets me to continue in my useful occupation of composing missionary articles for him. One treated of Taliparambu and Hebich, the best subject nowadays, as Heb. is quite the man for the newspapers. He also been lithographed and photographed and what not all, and the Mission gains a little from his pictures etc. The other day a gentleman sent 3000 Fcs anonymously to the Missionhouse - for blessings received thro Heb's sermons. Heb himself thinks that about 200 persons have been converted. It is very remarkable that many good people have only thro' his explanations come so far as really to enjoy Gospel peace. On the 10th he closed his speeches in Leonhard Church - on the 11th those in Martin Church, the buildg of course filled to overflowing. Meanwhile Dr Marriott being irritated against the Basle Committee for wavering a little about the continuance of Heb's sermons had written to a Methodist from America to come and begin a Mission at Bale. And really on this 11th the day when Heb. closed his series of teachings the new man came, and the next day (Sunday) began to hold forth in Marriott's house. Heb. and Insp. are of course very much vexed with it, as now it looks nearly as if the intention had been to withdraw people from one Church to an other. Heb has therefore finally exhorted all to stick to their teachers and do not seek life and light with new sects. But anyhow a beginning is made of having here a Mission in an other sense than we can wish for the good of the people. The Lord however may bring good out of it. On the 12th the whole Missionhouse had the Lord's supper together, but I did not go to Church. This whole winter I have kept at home and find that by God's grace I get still the necessary supplies for the soul - partly also by that sort of selection made from Rochat's writings where there is a text and meditation for every day on Lobstein's plan. This book Mlle Durand has used and left it to you on her death. Meanwhile I keep it for you. - From Stuttg they write very tenderly waiting for news from you nearly as anxiously as the 3 boys who know that the posttime is past and regret exceedingly that more than a fortnight should pass before they hear from you again. Pfarrer Meuret is rather strict with them and they are certain they would get evening bread from you even after the mistakes that now and then occur at school. The other day they asked whether they might not choose some blows instead of the loss of their evening bread. So it was commuted into 4 Tazen and Fred. at once preferred taking these instead of fasting till supper. It being winter they have of course a famous appetite and eat more slices of my westphalian ham than pass over my lips. - 14th Bunz has come from Stuttg to attend upon Hebich and see about him. It is there H is to lodge when at Stuttg. 15th Zaremba my next door neighbour left for Beggingen where his old friend Lang lives. (You know that Deggeller marries L's eldest daughter.) The Volksbote of today is quite full of Hebich (some 9 pages) you ought to have part of the councillor's votes read to you. Now farewell

The Lord be with you both
 and Your Papa
