Frau Dr. Gundert, Calw, Württbg. fr.

 Bale 2 July 1860
My dear wife

I ought to have written sooner, but so it came Friday to Mühlacker with Mohrhoff, who will have told that we had heavy rain on the way. The Stuttg railroad did not bring Mr Werner B's friend, so our going that roundabout way was for nothing. At Bruchsal we dined, when at once Gustav came in from Heidelberg. Mr Irion's brother a Conductor, was also there. G. had heard from his principals that Marie had been with them to look for him. Then by railroad as far as Freiburg, where we arrived after 5 PM and lodged in a grand inn - saw the noble Minster with its colored glass windows, and slept pretty well. 2 1/2 hours in the morning brought us to Bale (in the company of a Dr. theol. from Westphalia, who was neither hot nor cold). After dinner went to see the children - many sick with measles - Paul Hoch talks Canarese well, Malayalam appears to be forgotten by the Müller's. Pf Meuret and wife very interested in all news about our 3. Gess and Peter, with the treasurer Mr Braun live already in the new Missionhouse where soon 21 children (not Missionaries nor of Missionaries) will be aggregated. Saw the Hoch's, looking very well, their 2 sons are with the children. You are to be saluted from everybody, also the Huber's etc. Fred Müller came who said Mrs Irion was to live at Kirchheim, had hired a house there. Yesterday Sunday, fine preaching of Prof Riggenbach about the leaven Matth 13. Afterwards with Ostertag in great assembly, saw Mrs Hoernle the 1st time since 1835, Leupold and others. NB Leup's son is to enter the Kinderhaus, as also another Hoernle. Hebich does not come, lives at Gurnigel, bathes and drinks waters. Theodor has been here on Tuesday. - Mr Christ told me of a young man of Geneva, Mr Lasserre, 16 1/2 years old, whose parents wish him to visit Germany, in order to learn speaking German etc they thought whether we might not take him. I did not say no, but told Mr Chr. our circumstances, and how little German could be learned in our family - esp. as the parents wish it also to be good German - so we shall wait what comes. Fritz came Saturd evening, lives not in the Missionhouse so that I see him more rarely than I could wish. He told me something about my Mal Dictionary as if Diez had kept it and would send it hereafter - and you told him that? - I had never heard of it and could only wonder. Huber says that Fr wished all his children to be at the Kinderhaus, but there was not room for all. Therefore Hannah will with Sarah remain at Strasbg, Adele and Julie only proceeding to Bale. Christian Irion is to leave the Kinderhaus but we hardly know what is next to be done for him. Our 3 Mal brethren were glad to see me, also the Africans are nice fellows. Möglg wants the Comm. to send him Kaundinya by all means: chiefly for the coffeeplantation for which K. seems to have already laid out all his fortune - some 12,000 Rs I fear Mögl will soon have done with all that property and then Kaund. may come down a little. In order to make the new proposals agreeable to the Comm. Kaund has offered to live in Coorg with only 500 Rs per month. But this the Comm. don't consider a very sure thing as he had also promised in 1852 to live for that sum and had soon reached double that amount. I wish the 2 brethren had their wives with them, that would make an end to the many plans concerning the Coorg Mission.

Dr Barth was very weak the 1st 2 days, but seems on the whole rather to regain spirits and can sit up with us after supper beyond 10 o'clock. The journey fatigued him evidently. There is no doubt it seems of our remaining here for next Sunday, but the exact time will be determined hereafter. My love to Emma, and the good Stuttgarter when you write. Kisses to the 3 boys and I expect to hear a good account of them Nicht wahr?
 Your HG
