Herrn Dr Gundert, Calw

 Stutgard 7th Octo <60>*
Dear Papa

Yesterday evening we heard that on monday no Omnibus goes to Calw so we have to wait till Tuesday. I have recieved your last and will deliver the money as directed. Friday I went to Reutligen found dear Pauline in her bed, so much changed that I would not have known her. We had a good time together, she has not much desire to go to Trudel, knows that God can make her well if it is right. She was full of joy that we could meet together Afternoon she got up a little, had still to get up three times at night but besides slept well as she does usually even in daytime, her Paul was with her rather aimiable the first day, less the second because I had unfortunatly touched his spoon with my mouth Yesterday at nine morning came back, found no difficulties on the road. Frederic was waiting for me in the Casse. They the 3 boys are so pleased of Stutgard that they rejoiced heartily when they heard we could not go on Monday, As Ernst spoke of an other way of going on Monday, they were indignate and cried no rather instead of Tusday wait till Saturday when the Omnibus goes too, Saw Mrs. Muller who has returned from Winenden; but will go back once more next week. We are to eat Curry with her to day. Dring Coffee with tante Fige, Sup with Miss Seconddorf. Dear Mama has much to do with her poor Gustave. With the Pretorius I heard much praises of dear Samuel, who also formerly liked to eat good things like our Paul, though Samuel was more modest. When asked how many sausegess he would require to satisfy him he said six while our Paul who did not know of Samuel unswered me I want fivty 50!

Now I will say Good bye Love to dear Marie I rejoice to hear she has pupils; may she have grace for them. Salam to Marie Laurer, people say we are to fortunate to have her, every where complaints against servants! 
 Yours afftly
 J. Gundert
1Lieber Hermann!

Du hast mir versprochen Hermann wegen Stattuten von der Mägdeanstalt zu schicken wenns noch nicht geschehen, so bitte ich es eilig zu machen, da wirs so gerne diese kommende Woche schon hätten. Wir hatten gestern eine Sitzung, wo Deine Anfragen* wegen kleinem Anfang durchgiengen mir ist es ganz leicht dabei, denn ich habe an einem so großen Beginnen sehr schwer hinaufgesehen, wen es der Herr segnet so ist es für uns viel leichter wenn sich die Sache nach und nach erweitert. Frau Reihlen wünscht sehr Deine liebe Frau können zu lernen, und hofft sie wenigstens heute aus der Kirche zu sprechen. Grüsse die liebe Marie herzlich, wie Du gegrüßt bist, von Deiner
 T. Emma.

Die Kinder hatten schon zwei Abend die Freude Feuerwerk in Breunings Garten los zu lassen, mit großer Vorsicht und Furcht.



2Lieber Papa

Die Mama kam glücklich hier an: ich habe sie auf der Eisenbahn abgeholt. Gestern Abend sind wir sehr spät ins Bett deßwegen sind wir heute erst um acht Uhr morgen aufgestanden. Grüß die Marie von mir. Es grüßt Dich  Dein Sohn
 Friedrich Gundert
