Herrn Doctor Gundert, Basel, Missionshaus

 Calw 4th July 1860
Dear papa

Many thanks for yours just received. True I have not told you about your Dictionary because Dietz has promised to send it by steamer and assured us that it would reached here before the boxes, I did what I could to get them for I felt uneasy about them and wrote to Him that He was to send them at once to be put in the boxes; but he did not and promised again to send them by land so as to come before the other books. Till now I have been troubled with that Dictionary and thought I should not tell it you to trouble you hoping it will soon come! You say nothing of our sons Hermann's letter is nice. I shall soon hear from your own lips how it is.

You say nothing about your health perhaps because it is not good. I am surprised Fritz would have all his children in the Kinderhouse; Surly it would be good to have them together. Is Sarah better? can she stand on her foot. 
A Second letter of Marie says "We met to our unexpected great joy three of the Mission brides Miss P. Eydt a sweet looking heart-winning young girl who was imidiatly very hearty and affectionate with me. Miss Jälin the bride of Burkhartd dark eyed, dark haired, timid and gentle, not taller than I, who was quite pleased when I related her that I had seen her future husband not long before leaving India and the third was a Miss Zerweck bride of Mr Manner in Udapy and an open frane hearty girl, very tall and stronglooking with such true blue eyes I had my greatest joy with these three but esp. Miss Eydt pleased me very much such a sweet tender face, such a humble mild look and yet the thoughtful intelligent forehead. I could not help thinking she would have been fit for a finer a nobler a better man, but then I chid myself and thought that the Lord had ordered all things well, All the three look very young, but Miss Jälin has something very serious in her face. Oh my dear Mama I told those girls that they need not to be afraid of anything, that they would be happy in India and at the same time I felt a longing to go with them to the land where I was born. But no I am happy here too and if the Lord will I shall also see once Indian's shores again.

All the rest you can read at leasure I have but time to send off this. We are all well, The children are pretty good Frederic and David have made friendship together! it makes their behaviour alltogether better, if their love to each other continue our house will be a paradise so quiet and peaceful.

Thanks to dear Hermann and Samuel

With love from dear Emmale and self. The boys are at school therefore nothing from them

Love to all the friends
 Yours J. Gundert

P.S. inquire please after our coffe Mill I want it if done
