 Calw 8th July 1860
My dear Marie.

Many thanks for yours of the 5th By this time you have perhaps heard from papa or from your brothers. I send you here their letters, which you shall kindly bring me back when you come with Hermann. Dear Mama and tante will be glad to hear that it goes better with Herman.

I have seen Miss Jälin with her future mother in law, they were with the Wöhrles. I like her well.

Give please my thanks to dear Mama and tante for all they have sent, mustard welcome to papa I am sure, the Bell too, Our cherries stones have been kept faithfully. Let Mama kindly buy more of the "tafta* cir‚" as she has sent for my hands I used it last night and I fancy it was better with my joints. It is still very cold and unpleasant weather here; to day only we see the sun and rejoiece enjoying its heat.

Frederic is not quite well, the children alltogether are much better than I had expected I gave the stick twice to David since that they have been very quiet during papas absence. Today the younger ones go with tante to Deinach which is of course a feast, their English lessons they do not like much however they must daily. With dear Emma I learn German at least I try, but she goes quicker in English than I do in German, I have not heard as yet when my brother with family comme nor whether Marie Monnard comes at all. 
Marie Lohrer had told me her marriage story before you wrote but some what differently. poor girl wishes greatly to get a husband! She is doing her work very well. Now dear Marie Adieu may your stay at Stutgart profit you in every way

Love special to dear Mama tante, and to all the relations and friends 
 Yours affectly
 J. Gundert
