 Calicut 1 Maerz 60
My very dear Sons

The time is much longer than I had expected before I can see you, one month more before we embark and probably more than three month at sea. We must not count to meet before the last part of July. However if we are permitted to meet then we shall thank the Lord together.

It is already very hot here and we shall be glad to injoye the cold though not too cold. My very dear Sons all of you five how glad shall I be to see you; by this time papa has left you I suppose to begin his work. I wish I be there already with Marie to help him; but the time will come please God, meanwhile we must learn what God means us to learn and may it profit us. My David will be glad to hear that the people at Cannanore, Chiracal asked much for him and said that Marie is like him. I was glad to see once more those dear places, Rachel asked much after David and sends him much Salamms.

What will be that to meet again the whole family is it true? I can scarsely imagine that such joy awaits us, therefore I must now become a little cool by the long journey and learn patience

Adieu my precious sons to each of you a tender kiss from your Mama  J. Gundert


1Meine lieben Brüderlein!

Da waren wir letzte Woche in Cannanore, Tellicherry und Chombala in Tellicherry sah ich bes. Isabella Frau des Catechisten Gabriel, die früher den lieben Friedrich und nachher Paul auf den Armen trug. Nun hat sie 4 eigene Kinder, doch denkt sie noch mit Liebe an Euch und bittet mich, Euch einen bes. herzlichen Gruß von ihr auszurichten

Die liebe Miss Will gab mir drei Zuckertrauben, um sie Euch nach Basel zu bringen. Wärenddem ich in Tellicherry war, kamen aber die bösen Ameisen dazu, und zu meinem Aerger fand ich nur noch arme Restlein - doch meine lieben drei Brüderlein, bald hoffe ich mit Euch reden zu können, also brauche ich jetzt nicht viel zu schreiben. Adieu einem jeden von Euch einen bes. Kuß von seiner treuen
 Schwester Marie
