 Bale 2 March 60
My dear Marie

Yesterday I dined with the Ostertags whom you have rejoiced with your letter. It was right to remember them tenderly, they bear you also much on their hearts. - From whence is Hermann's glass? Did it come with Diez's harmonium? Then it may be that Herm put into it some sweetmeats (3 or four years ago - you know it was an immense time on the way). That must be the "verfaulte Etwas". - As you expected Pfleid at the time of writing I hope he has directed you so that you found the right way in selling books. What I meant was not so much that I wished to get rid of the books, but only 1.) to make the load smaller by selling chiefly what is very heavy and embarrassing 2) to oblige brethren who may wish to take off my hands what they had otherwise to procure from Europe. I hope however that all will have gone well. - No wonder your soul is sometimes "zagend", if it has been "ungestüm" as you call it. If it is nicely weaned from the latter, the first will be comparatively rare if not impossible The Lord is surely doing what is right not merely in general, but with the most special view to your happiness. This He requires of you to believe, and I hope you will not be backward in trusting Him for it. Then you will also learn that you do not yet know what your happiness consists in: of course you do in general, but not in particular. Were you now to sit down and draw a picture of what you should wish to enjoy - make it as perfect as you can: yet within 80 years you would laugh at it compared with what the Lord has thought out for you and carried into execution, if at least you do not prevent him by sticking to your own picture and preferring it to his idea. Believe me also I will not be sharp. But I should be glad to have you again under my thumb. How I would squeeze you and lord it over you? Still I hope without wringing tears from you. But the Lord will decide and to Him be all the glory!  Ever Your Papa
 HGdt
