 Basle 16 Jan 1860
My dear wife

I have this time 2 letters of yours before me (besides others from Plebst Strobel Moerike which I can not answer at once). Hardly had I sent off the last from Stuttg when yours of 2 Dec arrived - which I could then translate to Mama, the 2 Emma's, Jette etc assembled that Sunday afternoon (8 Jan). The next day I left for Basle with F Müller, who in passing to the Mission house entered the Leonhardchurch and heard - after 5 years - again the wellknown sound of Heb's voice. He preaches there every evening from 7-8 and has many hearers - comes to none of our meals as he has many visitors and invitations, so that he will not be bound by the order of the house. His collections at the Churchdoors amount to about 80-100 Fcs each day. Next day I saw the 3 little ones who were very happy to have me again. I have since told them of the Calwer plan: but they can hardly realize it in all its extent - "May we go along" Yes if you have good testimonials, and if Mama finds time to devote herself to you "Oh she will do that" (David) But you will have no garden as at the home "Never mind, a Mama is much better than garden", etc. When I told them the house would be a hired one they wanted to know how long they would be permitted to live there with us "perhaps a year or half a year?" They were then told - perhaps a whole year if all goes well. That gave great joy - but evidently they are so at home here that their minds have not yet taken in the possibility of removing altogether away from Bale. The 5 do evidently not for a moment doubt that Mary will come with you and then we shall all be reunited - they only ask why not now, why not in April - but I tell them May is the next month in which you can be expected. As for the difficulties of language they have no fear - David is sure he will understand you "I also of course" say Fred and Paul - Ostertag was seriously ill when I arrived, yesterday he called for me, said there was now some calm after the storm, but begged me to write a monthly Magazine for him or rather to prepare for the press some Materials already cut out by him. He and others think it by far the most natural that Marie return with you. But God will arrange about that, don't we know that he cares for us? I had then some bad days, as it were to make up for the very good days of Calw and Stuttgardt. But now I am again stirring, paid a visit to the children's Home where I saw Robert Albert recovering from his fearful disease. - Today I am to dine at Marriott's with Hebich and the 2 sons. On the whole they are both making good progress. Hermann is very easily led aside by any sudden impulse, whereas Samuel behaves very steadily and enjoys Christian communion that keeps him from much temptation. H<erman>* is still solitary - seeks friends and acquaintances only for the moment, serves them very faithfully, but without that single view to God's glory which alone can bless our communion with one another. He has been very open and showed me all his letters - it is quite a pity to see how he makes friends right and left, gets into a correspondence f.i. with that Miss Weidlich, Marie's friend - not as if he was seeking it, but he feels at once under obligations to all sorts and conditions of men, and serves them rather than God. But I can truly say, he is not afraid of me, on the contrary allows me to speak to his heart and correct his mistakes. To Reinhardt he had written in a curious spirit, so I took it upon myself and made my own additions to the enclosed letter of his. Depend upon it the Lord carries on His work in him and will yet make him singleeyed. You can not imagine what a great person he had been for years in the family - a sort of chaplain and ghostly counsellor to Aunt Emma - yea and to Mama, restoring peace among them and among their friends etc All this had put him into a wrong position, so that it requires time to sober him down. - Fred. is nice, freed from his chilblains, but more attached to Joh. Müller than to his 2 brothers at the home. A young Hoernle has shown himself very expert in thieving and lying to the great surprise of Paul, who lost his Gutle through him. (Apropos Paul asked after your size and added with wonder "But how then could she give birth to us?"). They are a nice group I assure you - and wait for you most lovingly. Now farewell, the Lord guide you and  your H
