 Calicut 22d January 60
Dear Papa

I have to thank you for three letters, We have been long without writing on account of the journey which ended on the 19th, the Sisapara road is still the best, less fatiging. however I was afrad to see the differant stations on our road. but I have no time to relate of the friends we met. Marie perhaps does it. Ten miles from this at the river before Bepoor, I felt very unwell vomiting for more than two hours, arrived here strong diarrhea so that I had to take medecine, this kept me weak till now; but by Gods grace I feel well again. Many thanks for your dear letters, the last in which you give me liberty to do as I think may be right regarding M. I am specially glad of: though for the present I see no door opend. I am thankful to know your mind and I trust and believe God will arrange all for the best. He has done wonderfully hitherto. I have good confidence for her and for me. 
I have no doubt about your calling to Calw. and would not for a moment wish you back to India with the state of health you had or have still. God has work for you there I feel sure His will be done mine shall be His with joy. I have tasted often that it is not only good though it may appear in the first only just and good; but it has been and shall be with Gods Grace agreable and perfect. A few years longer in this world spent in India or in Germany is but little differance. If I cannot talk there with any one I can pray. If God gives me rhumatism He shall help me to bear it. If we are straitened, little to live upon, my begining and end of life shall be equal, having had plentiously in the middle of it, and what I fear most will be perhaps spared me that is to have to cook myself; for you know that I do not know that kind of business.

I do not like the idia of going round the Cape, I am so nervous, however, we will see what may be done, so as to leave this D.V. at the end of March by ship or steamer I woold rather go in the second place by the Steamer than by Ship for those which have this in March are usually exposed to many gales near the cap. God will also arrange it. About our sons at least Paul and David Frederic too if he can bear it, Why not leave them in Bale probably they have there a better education than they could get in Calw; if the Comity will help us let them do it in this way, however I do not know what is right I leave it to you; but their learning must go before anything else. Dear sons I shall indeed be glad to see them and according to Hermans letter renew the days of enfance; though they may be some what disapointed in their dry cool mother. We expect here Pfleiderer in a few days I shall be glad to see him as he may help us a good deal in the way of the books etc. the heavy things must go round the Cap. Mr Bennet with whom we came from the Hills is here with family, He will help us in Bombay if we go that way.

What is understood by house accomodation, furnitures, beddings? but my questions are for nothing.

Excuse me to the dear children I cannot write this time.

Now I must say Adieu with love to all
 Yours J. Gundert

If we can leave this before the end of March we shall do it. Your writings we shall I suppose take with us for the ship has left long ago. Of Mrs <Christ>* Muller's death you will have heard, having no strength to bring forth her little one it died. she felt it had died and prepared herself for death too. Fritz saw her for a few minutes. She asked him to take home her 3 children which he did Muller alone; but comforted they say 