Miss Emma Gundert, Stutgart

 Calw 27th July 1860
My very dear Tantele.

This is but a small note as you see, however you will be contented with me I know! After you had left us the two boys who had had querelle with each other made peace, they were I believe sorry that you had seen them in such rage, When David entered the room he quickly asked after Tantele; but Alas she was gone and it was too late to run after her, Then displeased and grieved that he could not find you any more he exclaimed "böse Tantele, liebste tantele" and he was very near weeping; when he saw his Frederic in bitter tears, having asked the cause of his grief he repeated again "liebste Tantele why not wait for me." To day we expect my brother and family for Coffee, and tomorrow I shall D.V. prepare for the big wash. Marie Kindly teaches me every morning one hour; but it seems to me I am making no progress what ever

What are you doing beloved Tantele? and how are the very dear Mama and Tante? Give them my kindest and warmest love with thanks for their indefatigable love to us all Love also to dear Jette Tante and all other dear relations.

Marie Wöhrle came home yesterday for a small visit she walked and feels better, Martha Weibrecht took Coffee here yesterday. Mr Gruner is very nicely and sends you as well as to Mama and Tante kind regards Our three little ones are tolerably good. Paul plays less than he did when you were here. English lessons are still not much liked by them

Adieu my sweet Tantele
 yours affectly J. Gundert

a thousand thanks to Tante for her dear kind letter and for the Chocolat and the good things to the boys, I beg you to ask whether the 24 bottles have been received fresh butter for the dear tante
