 Calicut 14th Februa <60>*
Dear Papa

To day yours of the 7th January came for which many thanks as well as for the one of the 24th D. After we have gone letters of yours shall be sent to Pfleid I spoke to Him about it He is returning tomorrow from the Hills where he went to day fortnight. She is a fine soul a propre help for the Mission in every way I like her much just now she is not strong for a reason common to mothers, Mrs. Shlunk much less healthy and weak in every way, very nervous, but very willing to do all she can at school etc. Your money at Madras stands so.
___Rs 3.800 __of this sum 1080.8 to Mr* Allen from Ga
___________________________105 __to Miss Will
___________________________236 __to Lydia
__________________________2378-8 to me. H.G

the papers about money shall be copied one for you and one for Pfleiderer and to Him you shall write your orders. The money I get from selling our things Pflei takes and gives us or shall rather send you bills for Bale - Mrs Buhrer writes that she pities us to have to go to Calw; but if God sends us there He will also be with us which is the chief comfort and beauty of the place. I only wish I be already with you and the dear boys; but the time will also come after some months at sea; for we shall go round the Cape the Steamer is too expensive no reduction can be made, besides 95 pounds from B. to M. one has now to pay 129. Rs from this to B. for each person. We have written to Mr. Isenberg to send down at once your box it will also be good that we be along for your books. The Lord will also help me to wait upon Him for calm and stormes at Sea.

We have so much to do with letter writing and other works that I cannot write to the beloved sons, they must excuse me in the hope to meet soon each other. Herman and Samuels letters have given me real joy. Thanks to God for His work in them.

Our beloved Gompertz has been removed to his heavenly home we know nothing about his end, except he had been suffering from fever. I hope we shall hear from some one, Carr woh was to join his reg, at Harihar is not yet there He was to leave Bangal long ago; one does not hear any thing about him

Yesterday Convert and Lauffer went to Bypoor to see the Excelcior by which we hope to go to England, she is to sail in the middle or perhaps at the end of March. Mr Campbell Mrs Glassons son goes home in it. Glasson is here and found amongst his papers a long letter he wrote you onc; but forgot to send it he will send it by us! He will return home in one or two month Elieser lives again with his wife, I saw her; She looks truly bad, and said she can not love her bushand; though she has given up all other conection, she looks very dark and cross;

I expected to hear about our passage being settled before sending this off but the Capt of the Ship has sent no answer as yet so I must say Adieu He asked 1700 Rs for us both and we have asked to be taken for 1300 in a good cabin, if he does not agree we will try by the Vernon which is expected at Cananore. Now with love
 yours affectly
 J. Gundert
