 Basel 23 Febr 60
Liebe Marie

Du hast mir einen langen Brief geschrieben (warum aber nie über Bombay das doch schneller läuft als Madras?) Dein photograph von mir wirst Du vielleicht jetzt nicht brauchen. Kommst Du zurück, so laß es lieber dort. Wenn Du sonst niemand weißst würde ich Plebst nennen, der es gern annehmen wird und ein sehr getreuer Korrspdt ist. Es freut mich daß Dir die hills noch so gut gefallen haben. Mir gehts auch oft so das Panorama von Coonoor oder von der Strasse über Kaety kommt mir oft ganz zauberisch vor die Geistesaugen und dann wird einem der Winter hier sehr langweilig - ganze 6 Monate eine fast todte Natur Es will mir nicht recht hinunter. Wer weiß ob ich meine letzten Jahre nicht doch noch auf den hills zubringe! Doch mache ich keine Plane, und denke lieber an ein Hüttenbauen drüben, wo die Hütte (Zelt) Gottes mit den Menschen ewig währt. Du möchtest gern "Dein Herz in kleine Stücke zerhacken". Wart nur, Du wirst beim Wort genommen. But I remember Mama will also like to read this. Well then I wish you to be and remain a poor sinner. It is no great matter if you feel no progress. But you ought to feel what backsliding is and return and do the 1st works. It is a very good and acceptable time - we are to keep the word of His patience and then He will keep us too tho' our strength be but small (Revel. III). You see from the news which the Stanes' received on newyearsday that the Lord tasks also other people besides yourself. Everyone has his burthen: those often most who never talk of it. Be content with yours and follow after the great cross bearer, who has gone before us that we might walk in his footsteps. You will find after all that it was not half as hard as it looked from a distance. - I see now regularly the Ostertag's, who ask after you with great interest. The last time we had to wait 3 weeks from letter to letter, which made them also anxious as to what might be Mama's impression concerning the new turn of affairs. I have not seen them since I received the answers, but I think they will be glad to hear that Mama has taken it so calmly, and will wait with great interest to hear what may be the farther movements. We count already so, that I perhaps have only to write once more via Bombay, which would arrive there 27 March and reach you about 4 April - the next letter via Madras could reach you only 14 April - again one via Bombay would be there 11 April (will it still be of use to send it to Malabar, should it not rather be addressed to Isenberg, Babulla tank, Bombay?). Such are our thoughts but we shall be guided by the next news, which may be here within a week. - I fear letters of mine must have been lost, for I have been very regular to send something every week, as I think this preferable to heaps of letters sent by one Mail. Whether Samuel addressed them incorrectly - at least such as I wrote from Würtbg, I really don't know, but I think he is generally careful about it.

There have been many brethren sick of late, now it is better, Samuel was attendant on the sick this week and had to serve a Swede who for a long time had been obstinately sulking with Sam. To the latter this was a delightful answer to prayer and the effect certainly good. Titus and Stokes will probably be sent out this summer. The African brethren have spent 75000 Fcs above what had been granted to their Mission, a source of real distress to the Comm[itt]ee. Rottmann is far from being what Pfleid. is in India. If the Comm[itt]ee get money, they are ready strongly to reinforce the Indian stations. But who knows whether we shall have peace or war. To the Lord be it committed! May He fill your heart with His peace and make you joyful in Himself.

 With a tender kiss
 Your P.
