 Bale 8 Febr 1860
My dear wife and Maedle

I have no letter to answer, the next may bring me your impressions about the new turn of our affairs. The Lord will surely make every thing work together for our welfare. - The 3 little fellows become very impatient as the time approaches, should like to see into futurity and wish to hear whether they will lose their "Vesper" (evening bread) if they get a punishment at school: this you know is the rule in the Home. I told them that would depend on the measure of your severity: but David would on no account believe that you are a cruel Mistress, he trusts you rather more in this respect than me. They also begin to smile at my condition, that they might go with us to Calw if they get good testimonials from Mr Meuret. "Oh that does not matter - surely you won't leave us here" etc. - Some days ago they told me, Paul especially how they wished to be really pious, but then there happened always something or other, when they must do sin. Fred. called this seduction but I showed him it was something else, bondage of sin, service of Satan. They believe that this ends with conversion, and wish occasionally for a real heart's conversion. Heb's story has of course much influence on them, as he is the great person of the town, and also the schoolchildren speak continually of him. He has now had Martin's church opened to him on 3 evenings of the week: and once (though agst the wish of the Comm.) he preached in 2 churches on a Thursday the Churches being filled 1/2 hour before commencement. At last (6 Febr) a Col. Bachofen got up in the great council and demanded that Hebich's admission to the pulpit be discussed as an affair of the state. It was a deliberation of 3 1/2 hours: the Radicals and unbelievers spoke of H. as vitiating the feelings of the citizen's, little children learned thro' him bad words they would not otherwise hear, the rabble which had risen agst Heb's preaching and driven him from the pulpit had in fact been moved to this by the grand interests of morality, they had performed the work of the police when the police had been found wanting - Heb. had no business in Bale of which he could not know the wants - he had lost his senses by the Eastindian heat ("hündustanischer Prediger" he was called in a newspaper) - Conventicles must cease - etc. The others asked: what has he done? Perhaps emptied the beerhouses a little and thereby roused the ire of the innkeepers? His preaching was as good as that of the regular Padres. Again, there was to be liberty of conscience and why should not those also have it who liked Conventicles and Miss[ionar]y harangues. There was great excitement on both sides and the radical party were prepared for a victory, but when at last the votes were collected, 42 were against Hebich's admission, 44 in favor of it. The fact is, the enemies were too sure of their victory, and half an hour before the close 3 of the Rumpff (infidel) party had left the session for another engagement. If these had remained, Hebich would have been turned out of the Bale Churches by 45 votes agst 44. The case makes of course great noise in the whole of Switzerland. One objection (of Hagenbach, Dr and prof.) is that Heb. is only halfordained, that is ordained for the heathen, and if he wants admission on equal terms to Swiss pulpits, he ought to pass an examination, as Huber has done in these days to the satisfaction of the clergy and University. (Huber being a friend of the Antistes is of course regarded as far superior to Hebich or even the Inspector himself, he is now a member of the Bale ministry). Well, H is only to remain for a week more, and how he will fare in other places we shall hear by and by.

The 4th was my birthday: I had asked Sam. for a po‰m but got none. Presents however there were enough, David only wanted to force 3 books on me (of which I took one that belonged to the 3) Fred. bought for me 2 nice sermons of Riggenbach a believer who alluded favorably to Hebich. Herm and Sam brought Selters water, Mrs Ostertag old wine 4 bottles, Insp. a short sketch of Lacroix's life etc. H. and S. had to drink coffee with me at Josenhans' table. Also Zaremba came with a gift. This would all be very nice, but how am I to keep other people's birthdays in my mind!? It will be a hard task if matters go on in this way, and I fear you will not prove a very efficient help in this great question! You will by this time have made up your mind and see more clearly how to arrange all for your departure. At least I fancy so. Dear Mama and Emma etc wait also anxiously for the decision.

No particular news from anywhere. The Comm. begin to think that journeys to the hills are multiplying a little too rapidly. Did n't you say that Mack also went up? Hoch has spent an immense sum on his travels up and down. But I am particularly glad that you went up before you quit India as it is a sort of easy transition. So however that I should prefer the climate of the hills (esp Coonoor and Kotergh) to our long winters. But we are happy that we need n't choose. I am sure "we've aye been provided for, and sae will we yet!" as the Scotch song has it.

Now the Lord be with you all and with us here
 Your HG
