 Calicut 31 Janua <60>*
Dear Papa.

Yours of the 24th Dece has just come. I trust the money given by the Comity will cover intirely our expenses for going home. Pfleiderer who is just here with his rosy wife has written to the agent of the Stea for a cheap passage without being in the second place as it is difficult for ladies alone to be in the second place, They would have given it very cheap to Mr Ammann had he gone with family, Mr Bennett has also promised to do his best for us. So I hope with Gods grace we may go by steamer, had we been able to go in January I would gladely have gone by ship!

Hitherto we both are looking forward to go together, I mean Marie and I. She is very nice and very busy writing letters, lists etc I have already 500 Rs from things sold. So if we should require any besides the Comitys I would not take from Madras, though I think it would be better to take it from Madras and place it home with your or my brother. Pf is going to write to Arbuthnot whether it is a good time to get the money now or some months afterward so that we loos not by drowing it. At all event I tell Pf to wait for a order from you; but meanwhile prepare Arb. for getting it at your order

The Shlunks are here too and tomorrow Boshart is coming. Pf goes to the Hills and leaves here his wife who has some what superior to Mrs S. at least I fancy so. I have not seen much of them we are very busy. Should we hear that it would be more convinient for the Stea to take us in March because of the great quantity of passangers who usually fill them in April and May we would leave this in February; but we have now to wait for an answer from Bombay which we cannot expect before the 20th of Februar. Moegling advises us to go by Ship; it would be good for your books to go along; but I mind much such long journey in this season; besides we know of no Ship as yet going

Did you pay any thing besides the 190 Rs for Mrs. Grants Harmonium? if so let Convert know about it!

You will excuse my writing so little. Mrs Muller I hear had been very strong till a foretnight privious to her death. She knew she was dieing. Shlunk is not an admirer of Hebich far from it I think he goes too far in speaking against H. They now go to hear Rhenius Reinhardt is a great friend of him. The soldiers are coming more readily since Heb is gone. I felt truly grieved to see what spirit there is against He. Alas what is becoming the mission work!

 Adieu
 Yours J. Gund


1Pfleiderer und seine Frau lassen Dich besonders herzlich grüßen 