 Calicut <ca. 8>* <Anf Merz 60>1
Dear Papa.

That I may not forget. after I had written you I got a letter from Muller inclosing one of Reinhardt. saying "your dear letter has just come. What shall I say? I can only thank you motherly love and kindness twards me Though you have been told more than is true, I will endeavour to profit by it as much as possible.
Be sure that I am not offended Nay, formerly I only esteemed you; but now I love you since I see you are a mother in Christ. Remember me before the throne of grace as I really need it very much."

Muller says of him "R showed me your letter to him, I knew all the contents; but did not know that offences had been done. I hope this will give him wisdom for the time to come, He is a dear brother, but he has to learn and to forget many things." The remaining of his letter is very nice and affectionate. I write this that you may see that in my last letter exaggerations were made against R.

The money is so scarce that one has to lose two or three Rs on a 100; it has been even till 4 or 5 Rs. With Andrew I got some gold, with the loss of 6 As per pound this even was a favour from him to exchange it 
It is so very hot, my eyes are becoming so weak that I am glad to go home trusting it will be better,

Did I tell you that Lydia has married Mr Salisbury His mother is accused to have connection with the sad Mariam. I told her it would be better if they were to marry each other, at first she looked indignate; but I hope it will come to pass; for as long as it stands so there is no peace for the young couple; and shame rests on the church. Esther came to see me, they are now at peace together, she can love Eliezer; but there is no real repentance, she does not pray for she is afraid there is much darkness in her mind. 
Pfleiderer has not yet sent the bill of Carr you shall get it next with some more, for the books I have got but 42 Rs. Many do not sell though they are put to a low price If by and by you want any one or have any order about them, tell Convert, we have <written to>1 Mangalore to send here all they have that they be taken care here by C. Marie will tell you what has sold <In my next letter, since the list has not yet come back from Kaity>2 of them. In my last I have sent a bill for 700, Paul from Paulgh. came with his wife who want to be for her Confi with her parents at Talipa he is greatly troubled with her She cares for nothing has no understanding, he is very nice.

Love to the dear children and to Mama etc
 Yours affectly Julie Gundert
