 Basle 31 Jan 1860
My dear Marie

Yesterday I received yours of the 22d together with that of the preceding week of Jany which had been written (and misdirected) in such extra hurry. The latter epistle was of more value to me as it seems that you then begun to feel that your heart was not right with God. That had been palpable for some months - I only wondered how little the change interfered with your pious language (as f.i. when you wrote: "how thankful we were to God" on the occasion of Miss Sc's escape from your pony) - Don't you think it very dangerous to talk of our gratitude etc as if it were a selfevident matter that where there had been deliverance there was also thankfulness - as if we were not born hypocrites who put the word "thankful" for "glad", or use any language that comes to tongue or pen, more readily than renew our always failing love by the stimulus of His ever new mercies. Even now you say "Er weiss dass mirs wahrhaftig ernst ist" but how often have we already deceived ourselves. Would it not be truer if we left it to Him to give witness of the state of our hearts. I know He will not deceive me, but I may deceive myself again and again. I fear you are not deeply humbled, not well acquainted with the plague of your own heart "Mit Gottes Gnade werde ich anhalten im Gebet" you will, if you are kept very hungry thirsty poor naked blind - yea the very least of the Saints. But if you confide in your nice progress and judge others harshly, you will find but little reason for praying and may fancy yourself already a very religious character. And that you may be in the eyes of all God's people and yet be nothing as yet in the Lord's eyes. Are you sometimes afraid of yourself? afraid of losing every thing? of loving the world again? It is a very good thing to be afraid, because nothing is lost so easily as a soul: seeing there is one greedy and cunning enough to catch and devour it. I pitied you very much these several months, for I saw as plainly as possible how you liked the world again - and how then can you find out and do God's will in the question that is to decide about your future. It is often hard enough for a well prepared heart to come to a determination as to what is God's will. But with a heart bent on one's own predilections it may be a fearful danger. If for no other cause I should have wished on your account to return to India; that you might not have to resolve on such a weighty question in a time when your heart is the plaything of worldly affections. If I know that Dirs wahrhaftig ernst ist, how easy would it be. But so the Lord wills it: and I trust He is going with you whatever way you may now choose. I mean that He will not give you up to a mind careless about his love and His final appearing - for that would be dreadful indeed. Still I am prepared for a certain time of darkness, and only trust the light may pierce through it before it be too late. It is also the Lord's goodness that you have your faithful mother with you in this crisis. For if it had not been for your sake she would have accompanied me in 59. I hope you will use her advice as long as you can have it. One does n't find such friends easily in afterlife. And now I pray that the Lord may direct you in a path of peace for His name's sake. 
On the 29th I was with Mrs Ostertg. Him I could not see because he is to be kept from excitement in the evening. Yesterday saw the Leupolt's and met there Elisab Mackay hammering away on the piano with a teacher. I told her of you, but got nothing out of her. Mrs Ost. sends love, she is well and he recovering Selma suffers again a good deal, they say. Steudel appears to think that she has cancer of the stomach Dear Emma writes to me very tenderly: Dear brother or rather father" I hope that does not make you jealous She is anxious to learn English as quickly as possible in order to be ready for her sister in law she hopes by the month of May to be able to speak a little - she learns indeed very steadily and Muller is content with her. Aunt and Mama purchase already some things for me in public auctions etc. Now fare well, and be wholly the Lord's. He will then be yours, and you may trust Him. With a hearty kiss
 Your Papa
