 Calicut first March <60>*
Dear Papa

We have received nothing I think since we wrote; but are expecting daily. The dear children will be desapointed to hear that the Ship leave this only at the end of march I am too; but patience must learn. The Lord has done hitherto wonderfully and will still do. I send here a bill from Pfleiderer for 700 Rs. An other one a gift of Coll Carr 300 will follow soon. that will enable you to purchas what is wanted. I long to hear how you are; but how you are in your new place we shall not I suppose till we reach England in July that will be a long time without news! on the high waves now and then as it were under them! You pray for us with many other friends I know. Mrs Allcock is said to be pious it is a comfort at least, her husband is seeking they say, they have four children going along. besides this Capt and family. We have been asked to take charge of two young Clarck from Tinivaly one 8. the other 6 years of age, they have a servant Some other people from Cochin are said to be inquiring to go too by that Ship. I regret we could not go by Steamer, for we might have been there in April. 
In six days we have performed our journey to Telli, Cannanore. The first day to Coilandy hot place Esau nice, his wife some what displeased with being always sick, people are poor, wish for more help. At Chombala next day, on the road to it saw Timothius who looked after the Building he is to occupy at Moovaratiu*, the first christian there you know he heard the gospel from you 12 years ago, he is called Samuel now. his brother and wife, mother, wife sister have been baptised it is a nice place and the people appear to be fine christians too. At Chombala had a meeting with the women a very great number, Pauls wife sighs after the time the Mullers were there many other people too. Paul himself says we go down and not up; life seems to be so controled by the out ward means, that they feel as it were pressed down in every way. Women getting no more work since Bess is gone make them to regret Mrs M very much. Diez was just covering his house, very much the same in talk and ways, he wishes to go to Coonoor for his wifes confinement. Doctor says he is not wanted. she says he ought to come! 
At Tellicherry, less life it appeared to me than at Chombala, Women complaining there is no more a mother, Newly married people seem to live more for each other than in old days, with all the new couples it is the same to be happy with each other showing much love even kisses as* the Nights* did before the people Only the Harres are wiser though in reallity they are as happy as the others, she told it me herself; she is a fine woman, ready for work and fatigue, they now live in the upper house vis a vis the Catchery. He is nice too, she expects her confinement every day. Mrs Al very weak body, she suffers much in her breast cannot nurse. She had an abces in one the next one seems to be getting one too, She is a gentle good creature very willing to serve the Lord it seems; but not able to do much, she was glad to hear of many little things which I thought she should do with women and children, showed a good mind to do it! Almost all came to see us; but there is some thing dry and formal, except in Isabella who is still the same nice and cheerful. Matu too was nice. Irion and the brethren very kind to us, At Cananore found Abraham whom Muller had kindly called from Taliparambu to see me. Dear Muller was very tender and affectionate now and then tears running down his cheeks. We lived in the Shlunk's house who were very kind to us too, the brethern came to dine with us, and the next day we dined with them in Muller's house that is to say in Heb. there also the women are regretting Mrs. Muller, she did for them what they could, Many lament all the old missionaries are gone what is to become of us, Saw Chiracal Joseph there very nice full of love and chearful, He with Abraham Stockings Obraion Timothious live in communion and prayers they are the noyau or curnal of the church it is truly sweet to see and hear them, Timothious has much profited by the death of his wife. I felt truly happy in their midst. At Chovay much death not even coming to preaching or prayer many of them. Joseph Candapen has married an Eastindian from Cotayam school, nice young looking wedow, well dressed, he quite stout and well dressed too thow he has but 5 Rs per month, either she brought him money or he is not faithful in the work as salt-godown pion, I heard that he lends money. The brethren with Shlunk not in good terms, no communion, Also not much in Telli they say that Shl likes to put himself forward. Hanhart is liked very much by all the people also Muller; but Reihhart is disliked one does not think him converted as well white brethren that is soldiers and Catechists he has no good name neither with black nor white, some even think him to be a puseyite, With us he was most kind and polite; but I could not help being very serious and cold, I would have liked to speak with him, and just as I intended to do it, I heard the news that the Capt of our Ship was a drunkard and that we would be the only passangers, after a few hours of anxiety during which time Capt Haultain took much trouble to ascertain all about it we heard that Capt Allcock who had telegram to Cochin to our Capt who was there with his ship had received a favorable answer about a Cabine and would go too, as he is ship or Sea Capt I feel more confidence, the report that Capt Bond drinks could not be proved for certain. These news came just as we were leaving Cannanore. Had the bad report been true about the Capt and the Allcock had not gone I would not have gone by that Ship alone with Marie. I regretted much I could not speak with Re He goes to Rehnious has friendship with him while in secret he has got back from the Mission three young soldiers. Obr<ien>* is furious against Rehnious and Rehnhart. You have heard that two officers with some soldiers have been converted, Haultain is evidently blessed for them. 
No particulars as yet about Gompertz, Carr who has written twice from Madras is much grieved to have to meet his reg with out Gom. He seems to be very nice Carr, had a mind to finish his life with us had we stayed here, sends us presents from Bangale, to you much love.

Here it goes pretty well Lauffer made 338 Rs profit last year, Convert nice with the people, does all he can. Luke's wife has died after a long sickness. Esther is coming round has confessed to Eliesar that Mariam wanted her to run away with him! Mrs Grant is going to the hills, she pays Lydia's expenses to Samuel who takes care of her with the dear Ann.

Now with love to all our dear people specially to Mama Sister, tante, who perhaps are beginning your household or house keeping
 I remain yours affectly
 Julie Gundert

Irion gave up smoking and is much better the digetion more easy. Do write to Carr if you can.



____________________________1Rs__As
Luthers Tischreden _ 1 - 0 _C. Moerike
Stier's Jesaias _1 - 8 G. Richter
3 Büchle v. Steinhofer zus. _ 2 - 8 Richter
3 v. Oetinger zusammen _ 0 -12 Schlunk, Lauffer und Pfleiderer N.T. von Hahn _0 - 4 Aldinger
Epheser von Hahn _0 - 4 Aldinger
Schmid Theologie des N.T. _4 - 0 Moegling
Müller geistl. Erquickst. _0 - 6 Richter
Roos christl. Glaubenslehre _0 - 8 Moegling
Knapp Christoterpe 37-40 2 - 0 Aldinger
Schubert Naturgesch _3 - 0 Schoch
Most Encyclopadie der ch. _2 - 0 Pfleiderer
Berghaus Geographie __3 - 0 Moegling
Hofmann Erdbeschreibg _8 - 0 Diez
Reuschle besch. Geographie _1 - 0 Schoch
Ranke Gesch. Deutschland's _3 - 0 Richter
Raumer Hohenstaufen _3 - 0 Richter
Grimm Deutsche Mythologie _4 - 0 Pfleiderer
Pilpay Fables _0 - 8 Moegling
Barth Christian Missions _1 - 0 Subaya
Wardlaw Drew's memoirs _0 - 8 Herre
Malan* life of Louis de Cond‚ 1 - 0 Schoch
Sherwood lady of the Manor _2 - 0 Richter
Shakespeare Dramatic works _4 - 0 Moegling (Du hattest 2 eines bring ich  Dir mit)
Malan l'Ami des enfants _2 - 0 Miss Will
Bruder Augustini Confessiones_0 -12 Convert
Platonis Opera _2 - 0 Moegling
Stieler Handatlas _8 - 0 Moegling
Bach Choräle _2 - 0 Lauffer
Layritz Liedersammlung _1 - 0 Lauffer
Händel's Messias _3 - 8 Pfleiderer
4 von Jeremias Gotthelf _10 - 4 Schoch und Richter

The books of Graff and Grimm we shall take home with us and some others too, which cannot sell and wd be of value to you The rest we leave with Convert and then you can give him orders about them Of course all the Native Books and most of the English we take home, they are already packed. - Perhaps some more books may sell here and then I would write to you next time what remains with Convert. Is it right or wrong? -

Soeben kommt Dein lieber Brief vom 16ten Febr. Herzlichen Dank, lieber Papa. An Moerike habe ichs gleich abgeschickt.
