 Calicut 20th March 60
Dear Papa

Marie has already told you all about our little troubles regarding the Ship. The Cap says he will leave this on the 31 Saturday; but we suppose he can only leave in the next month. After some days he goes to Tellicherry to take Cargo and the Allcocks, with Edourd Brennen who is sent home by Broun they say. besides these and the two Mr Clarck's children no one it seems on board but ourselves. They say the Capt is a quiet nice sort of man; he is to dine here one day. Mr Glasson and young Adis are still here, Shoch came back from Tellichery Convert wishes to have him for Calicut and indeed he is wanted here Lauffer can not do the business and Justine gives a good deal of trouble. Convert does his best, is truly diligent at work as well at school (which is going on very well) as in the congregation. Now and then he is cast down; but his help is in the Lord where also he seeks it. Here every thing pretty much as usual. Vedamutu some what stupid in his countenance already and his talk some time as of one who is not quite sobre; but they it is in consequence of the fever he had. I long to hear how you feel in your new place and new work. It would have been nice if we could have met together in Bale at the feast which I might have spent at Neuchatel, than go to our home; but it will be too late I fear, You will let us know in London where we should go first Bale or Calw? 
Mrs Grant is on the hills with her children, she is a fine soul, Mrs Y<oung>* wrote from Madras, they had not yet heard from you, nothing from Carr, Moerike is to undergo an other operation, Love to dear Mama and Aunt who are helping my thanks to them Love to the boys.

 Yours affectly
 J Gundert

I have got a tigre skein quite intire it came yesterday from the hills a gift of Mr Ward it was good he got our Bull
