Mrs Gundert

 London 18 March 60

My dear wife

I wrote you last on the 2d of the month, just before Herm's departure for Stuttg. He has been found a fit subject for the Würtbg army, but we hope that the Lord of hosts will incline the King's heart to get him free for better than human service. On the 4th of the month Heb. held his last great meeting in the Miss. house: but he has after all not got rid of ministrations in Bale, one always hears of his being about to leave and yet sees him remaining there. The fact is that he has a great entrance there and fears to spoil some thing by leaving too much in a hurry. On Fred's birthday your last letter arrived, accordg to which you may be on your way already. However I think it best to send this on and you may still get it at Bombay. At Aden etc you will not find any letters from me. You know of my journey to this place for the purpose of visiting the Liverpool Miss[ionar-]y Conference. I set out on the 11th, with Samuel as far as the French frontier, passed the night at Muhlhouse, had then a cold and fatiguing ride to Paris where I rested with dear Bodelschwingh of the German Mission He made me also speak to the Germans assembled in his schoolroom. (13th eving) On the 14th to Boulogne and across to Folkestone in the evening late at dear Mr Stokes' house. I had then 3 hard days of London life walking, riding steaming all about meeting few people and doing little work where I ought to do much. But people are not at home and the distances are immense. I cannot now recount the particulars, and tomorrow must go on to Liverpool; so hope to tell you the whole by way of mouth. I saw Lechler's sons in the Indpdt Mission's Home. Also a Reuther is there. Wrote once to Bale of my arrival in Engld. Lord Congleton was not at home, she did not want to see me. I hope to see Mrs Groves at Bristol and J. Walker at Bath. Probably also Edinburgh with Mrs Foulis and Dr Harrison. My health is very good, tho' I am often amazingly tired. The soul is somewhat strained, this evening I am to preach to the Germans.

Now farewell Love to you both
 Your HG.

1With our united warmest love to you and your dear Marie C W Isenberg. 