 Calw 10 Aug 60

My dear Emma

As I fear dear Julia will not correct your letter, I take the liberty to make a few suggestions (and take a few exceptions) as regards yours of the 3d. Julia can not "set" again to learn, but must "sit", and takes occasionally the liberty to set Marie over against her in order to learn from her. I do not think you are "quit alone", but quite alone: tho' also this is not quite true; in order to be quit, which means acquitted, you require always somebody else to be with you and for you. You better give no trouble to any one, making trouble is a poor business. What is the matter with aunt Emma and "their eyes" - are more than 2 eyes concerned in the matter? Then of course they belong to more than one person. Her eyes are, I hope, improving. Don't exercise yourself to play but rather in playing. One does not tell to Paule, but we shall tell any one anything you like. What do you "set together and work"? You may together set about it, when you want to accomplish something: and then it is always pleasant to sit together for that purpose. - Mezger has been here to see us, he goes to Palghaut or Dharwar, Schauffler the man for Calicut has also been here I like them both. Mezger had also some fit words for dear H. who in his presence said, that he does not like in the N.T. that word "dying to oneself" and that no body ever really died to himself. H, you know prefers smoother words and po‰tical expressions to such matter of fact speeches. As for us we are sorry and ashamed that we do not give him the impression as if we tried to die to ourselves, deny ourselves, and crucify the old man, but though we should not do it, there was considerable arrogance in maintaining that nobody ever did. And for this Mezger, I hear, rebuked him strongly. I was not present then, H is always more pious in my presence than with younger people. 
We are still kept from walking much, it is so wet and dirty. My friend Capt. Taylor has written from Engld and will undertake writing Dear Gompertz's memoir. When you see dear Jette, please invite her also to come and stay with us a little while; best together with her Mamma, if they can manage it. The boys leave us next week. So it will be a comfort to have some company instead of them. Love to Mama
 Your H.
