 Basel 15 Jan 1860
Liebe Marie

Only a word about your Nov. letter. It was marked "insufficient" being much heavier than to ber paid by 2 As. You ought to weigh letters before sending them - or they might once keep them from us. But this time some kind person sent them on in spite of the Insufficiency. - I hope you will greet dear Bess from me as well as the other friends that remember me. Had I known that you may be up there to the end of this month I might in former letters have charged you with salutations by name which now I omit in order not to involve you in correspdce. - Was today with Ostertg who had a bilious fever for some days, but is now recovering. He sends you love. Reuther will have sent you their photograph. - As you mention for the 1st time Mr B in your letters I think it right to come to the same subject. I have observed not without concern that you have fixed that name so much in your heart that it does no more appear doubtful to you whether you ought to consider this right and proper - whether you were not obliged by the grace of God shown to you in 58, to strive against that image of 57 settling in your mind, when you were a child of 15 years. To me at least this does not convey an idea of sound conversion - Converted people distrust themselves in such selfindulgences, you seem to be all secure. But however that may be, the question now is what will be your future? Can you just descend from your height and betake yourself to the narrow valley of the Nagold? Or do you think yourself called to try something else beforehand? I may consider you still very young. But if you think yourself already old, it would be wrong in me now to interfere by a command which may make you unhappy for life. I have therefore authorized dear Mama to take every possible regard for your wishes. If you wish to renew the correspde with Mr. B. I cannot of course advise you to do so, but would not hinder your own free resolution. It is better that you now venture something for your own happiness than that you feel yourself neglected by your parents in what concerns your whole futurity. I leave it therefore to you - in concert with dear Mama to take your next step as if I had no control over you. Herein I run some risk, no doubt, but the times are past when fathers can deal with their daughters so freely as in the times of Paul (1 Cor. 7). The responsibility of my position I cannot of course shake off, nor will I get rid of it: but whilst I call upon the Lord to guide you I would for once divest myself of paternal authority and only ask you as a friend of some experience: Look well what you are doing, try whether you are in the faith, whether you will suit Mr B. and whether he will suit you. In 57 he professed to be pleased with you on account of your having so much religion - will you not now have too much for him - or are you ready to throw so much of it overboard as may not be to his liking? or was it perhaps only a temporary excitement what made you think yourself converted - and is your hour of grace still to come? Any how you are now to act on your own account. Should you find Mr B. disengaged and still ready to marry you, Mama may probably arrange to go with you as far as Bombay. Even if you had to go to Scinde, she may accompany you thither, as far as it may appear necessary. We shall be able to give you about 800 Rs for your outfit, and I shd think this might be arranged before the rainy season, so as not to prevent Mama's return by that time. I can also believe that the Lord according to his longsuffering will accomplish in this way his designs with you - and promise that you shall in no manner be cut off from my love. - But if you can not come to this decision, you ought to consider the other way, which is to return home (for I do not think you called or qualified for a 3d course, which would be to teach a native school and serve the Lord in that capacity - alone, or under another sister, except your Mama). If you come home it will not do, to come halfhearted, with hankerings backward and longings forward; but then it ought to be a manly resolve to be content with whatever station the Lord has in mind for you, to suffer and die with Jesus, to live humbly with men of low degree and seek no good days for the flesh or the mind. There is much peace in store for those who will nothing but His will - but it is gained by many a hard struggle. I fear you have been taking things somewhat easy and got into a way of thinking and talking on religion without much power. Now you are called to fight your way and I fear you will find yourself very weak. I wish you may do so indeed, that you may experience with Paul, when I am weak then am I strong. And may the Lord himself prepare your heart and way. 
Herm. regrets after I have shown him the passages that there are still such uncertain sounds in his trumpet. But what he wrote came from a tender feeling and ends in a good spirit. All the brothers send you hearty kisses as well as
 your Papa
