 1Corcelles 6th Mai 1860
 <Samstag>2
 <in Basel 8. May (Mo)>2
 <Am diesem nächsten Donnerstg 10 May Mittag Begrüßg! in Basel>2 
Mein theurer Hermann

Here we are very near you. Last night at 9 o'clock we reached Corcelles - first we had hoped to go direct to Basel and surprise you but in asking about the way, we heard that the best way would be by Neuchƒtel Of course we could not pass Neuchƒtel without going to Corcelles - Now we thought to spend this Sunday here and go on Monday to Basel. But No 1: three pieces of our luggage remained at Geneva so we have to wait for them No II: my Sisters will not let me go so very suddenly. To morrow I shall send a telegram to Marie Monnard, then she might come to us on Wednesday If so we shall D.V. leave this on Thursday or Friday. - I am truly sorry to delay in seeing you, my own dear Sons, for I hoped to embrace you to day at 10 in the morning already - but all must be for the best and who knows why I was to see my sisters now? - I write to you, dear Boys, as I know that Papa is in Calw - I send to every one of you an affectionate kiss and hope soon to do it personnally well D.V. we meet soon and then shall relate you all. - Please send this to dear Papa - farewell my beloved Sons May the Lord in His grace grant us a happy meeting in His Holy Name.

 Yours very affectionately
 Julie Gundert


3Mein theurer Bruder

Gottlob hier sind wir! - Nur ein kurzes Wörtlein und dann das weitere mündlich D.V.
29th März fort von Calicut by steamer
3d. Avril kommen wir in Bombay an.
11th April by "Jeddo" von Bombay weg
24th April kommen in Suez an
25th-27th Cairo Alexandria etc
27th Steamer "Vectis" von Alexandria fort
3d May kommen in Marseilles an
4ten von Marseilles nach Lyon
5ten von Lyon morgens um 6 Uhr
um 11 in GenŠve, um 4 in Lausanne
um 7 in Neuchƒtel, um 9 in Corcelles

Gott sei Dank der uns bis hieher gebracht die Freude hier war sehr groß 
P.S. we hope to send to morrow our luggage from here by roulon to Basel - then please inquire after it and keep it in safety till we come The dear aunts send much love to you all
