 Calw 4 Sept. [1860]
My dear sister,

Thanks for your kind letter, in which I can with every scrutiny find no fault, except that there is* to be to mark of exclamation after brother for the English write very calmly as you see from the Comma after sister! Another fault is in your English M's, which you must commence on the line, not above it, lest they resemble the H's. But this is nearly a microscopic fault. I am half sorry that you go, and still cannot say any thing against it. I only hope you do not delay too long in that low place <Barmen>*, but return soon to our high life. If however you like it better, perhaps your visit may induce us to follow you the sooner into that unknown country. Only remember always, that you are no Low Dutch, but a High German: and I hope you will never forget to aspire to something still higher. 
Saturday afternoon we went in a deluge of rain to Nagold, Dr Barth, wife and self. Reached it 4 PM - myself with a toothache which has not left me since, and acts as a sort of drawback to the pleasures of that visit. Barth preached Sunday morning half a sermon, deferring the good Samaritan for the afternoon. Dean Freihofer commenced the Miss[ionar]y anniversary with prayer, Deacon Kemmler gave the annual report, I related something about Tinnevelly, and Barth concluded - but felt obliged to make it short. The exertion was too much for him. We saw then many friends, esp.* the Hoch's from Pfalzgrafenweiler, where his sister is Pfarrerin. B. prevailed on them to stay and return with us Monday morning, when we had to dine with him, before visiting our house. The boys had obeyed well enough, only David had once screeched so fearfully, that Mr Haydt could not sleep on in the morning as he had intended after a laborious Sunday evening. Hence D. had something of a bad conscience about him and would not even go to meet us "aus gewissen Gründen" as he said. Mrs Hoch and the children saw our abode for a few moments and then went on towards Carlsruhe, Basle and Zürich. We hear Hebich's clothes have already arrived at Josenhans' in Stuttg. 
Barth has shut the room against me and does not even answer when I knock at the door. Hannele said, he could not read to them this morning, having assisted at a Stammheimer Committee sitting in the afternoon. Perfect rest will, I hope, restore him to a little more of ease - but there is of course no idea of my leaving under these circumstances.

 Farewell to all
 Your Herrmann
