 Calw 12 Oct <1860>* <nicht 61>*
My dear Emma

I hope I have now sufficiently punished you for going so far away from us - Now we have snow - snowfall for hours! and having just accompanied Ernst to the post, as he returns to Tubingen, I am willing to send you a word of greeting into your Lowdutch place. Remember you made no voyage to Barmen, only a journey; I am the only one of the family that has made voyages, including of course my wife and children. Theodor met you (not meet, which is present tense) - was ill as we came, I hope not, that would make your coming the reason of her illness, but was ill when you came. This is very possible. makes us much pleasure rather gives. - My story is this. On the 21st I preached the last time at Stammheim, where the Minister and Messner arrived a little before midnight. Barth had detained them an hour or two to relate about the Kirchentag. 23d with Fried Müller and Mama at Zwerenberg where I preached in the morning, and we both spoke in the afternoon. 25th I visited the teachers of the boys, and heard on the whole good testimonies about their conduct, so they were permitted to go with Mama to Stuttg a week before the vacation began. 26th early Mama by omnibus to Stuttg with some girls of the Weitbr. The boys were to walk, I accompanied them as far as Althengstett where they dried themselves with a Coffee and had from thence fine weather as far as Maichingen. 27th king's birthday - they reached Stuttg on foot an hour before dinner. There they were fearfully indulged, so that they became nearly inseparable friends of the capital: the races they did not see but some ropedancers and Moridthaten at the Volksfest. 30th Mission feast at Herrenberg, where also two Kapff's did speak, father and son. Marie had accompanied me to the Dean's and liked the excursion. 1 Oct the Kapff's visit Barth. 2 Oct I went to Stuttg with Deacon Rieger, found all well, assisted the 3d at the Pastoral Conference, and returned the 4th, when I found a letter from America with news about poor Ludwig's death (29 Oct 1859). 7th* I preached for the first time instead of Rieger in the afternoon. 8th helped with 7 witnesses to sign Dr Barth's last will - 9th (David's birthday celebrated in the morning at Stuttg a very grand affair - after which) the 3 boys with Ernst walked as far as Böbl where they overtook the omnibus, and came safely with Mama into the old home. 10th we went all (except Julie) to Zavelstein and admired the view from the old tower. Today the news of Mrs Young's death at Madras, Mama's dearest friend in India. I have now to prepare for Backnang (Missionfeast 14th) and Boll (to treat with Blumhardt about his Missionhistory 3d edition) Farewell dear sister and do not forget us in your enchanting spot  Your H.
