Mrs Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Madras

 Basle 25 Jan 60.
My dear wife and daughter

It is I believe more than a week that I wrote - since then the boys have learnt to ask much about Calw and are daily occupied with fancying what sort of life we shall lead there. 19th Fred Müller returned to Stuttg, rather displeased with Hebich who is in the midst of new work and cannot look after old friends. In the evening Deggeller arrived, happy bridegroom of Betsy Lang and designated pastor of Karass, the birthplace of both his wives. In April or May he is to undertake the long journey to the Caucasus. He is truly happy in his soul as far as I can judge. - Ostertag being still abed has given me charge of some of his work. I had accordingly to seek in the archives for all the old records about Hebich, in order to make Ost's sketch of him more correct. In the Magazin for March that article is to appear and may serve to introduce Hebich to the notice of the German public, who are of course beginning to stare at him. - 21st this morning died Miss Agnes Legrand, in her 51st year Marie will know her well. Her old (75) Mama misses her much. - 23d. Hebich's daily sermons begin to tell on the people - many are glad and come forward to show their confidence in him Others grow inimical. This evening there was for the 1st time an outcry against him, some persons went out and slammed the doors with every mark of anger. But the 24th was the decisive day. Heb was preaching on the story of the Baptiste. Generation of vipers - Pharisees and Sadducees, whorers and adulterers occurred now and then plainly addressed to present hearers, when at once a bearded Republican threw his cap into the air and 50-100 persons began to clamour with one accord: pull him down! away with that devil! Tear him into 1000 pieces etc. One couldn't hear a word of what was spoken. Heb remained calm enough and ordered singing. - That went on pretty well, he began a 2d time "the axe is already laid at the root of the trees" and exhorted to repentance, when the 2d outcry began. He then commenced to pray, the people got more quiet, and all dispersed. A tender Lady said: oh what a judgment over Basle! others: I tremble and quake, but am thankful to see that Satan's kingdom is attacked. Many ladies remonstrated fearlessly with the crowd of enemies and thronged around Heb as he left the Church. The pity is that the Clergy appear to be against Heb's preaching and Christ Sarasin has taken on himself the responsibility of ordering all these evening services to cease from today. How matters will go we donot know. Happily the Lord lives; several souls have been converted already and the stir in the pious and holy town is immense. Now the Lord be with you and M  Your H.

Yesterday Mrs Pfarrer Huber had us 6 to dinner and gave us afterwds again a Christmasstree with presents. The 5 were of course delighted Love from all. _...t the brethren from me
