 Coonoor 24th - <Decemb>1 5th Jan <1860>*
Dear Papa

On the 22d came your photograph with the five sons, it has been a real joy to me. Freddy looks somewhat high minded; but it may be from his standing the head to upward, Her and Sam. surprised Marie being without Cravats and westcoats! David just as ever Paul I would not have recognised. They are all fine and lovely. May we see them so one day with us at the supper of the Lamb!

The 23d we went to Bleakhouse and dear Tom <Stanes>* took our likeness. I trust their will be one for our dear three pets for their* son do* own and one for our two big sons too the one for the 3 pets has but Mama, the one for the 2 big sons has Marie and me. It is truly nice to see those 3 young men to live there on the hill Tom is the savour and salt.

24th Dined with Col. Woodfall both are nice; but they keep too much at home, She is said to be some what stingy of a very delicat health. the Hochs were there too so no lacune in the conversation. he does not seem to be so lively and Jealous as he was 14 month ago while we were at Mangalore. She speaks with joy and as if she had profited by the season you spent with them here at Coonur. They hope to find you there still. Tom Stanes heard that I would have liked one portrait for each of our little ones, and he will do it, so as I have nothing to send them at least they will have this little remembrance.

25th We had the Lord supper, at noon by Strobel Hoch went to Kaity and is to return to hold still a meeting of farewel. Tom and Robert St dined with us. Fritz leaves Calicut on the last day of the year will spend the first at Coilan. and proceed to Cananore where the ship is expected on the 4th. The Moeglings will only leave Mercara on the news by Telegram that the ship has left Bom. Hoch will see Diezs on his way and speak about George K<olb>* for Ann Blandford if Di consent. poor Ann I do not think she can do for any one better here people laugh at her, she has not the common sense required to stand before people, putting herself forward in every thing. On Friday they have gone to Kaity. Bess is very nice and liked by all, though I find her too short of energy and cares. evening came yours of 15th No for which thanks. Hoch sais that he never got any papers from you, you had mention you would; but did not give him any thing; Stroble wrote yesterday about the Athenaeum no more to send it, you had not mentioned it before this. The railway does not go regularly it is done now and then as a favour to some and it is only from Palghaut to Vaniacalam 22 miles The papares spoke as if it was to be open in Dec till Bepoor; but Mr Sullivan to whom Strobel wrote for the Hoch's wrote that it could not be open so far before 1862. 
26th The Hoch left this early for Medapalium. I have rebought the Aden cow from them hoping you may one drink of its milk! By your letter to Plebst I see you are obliged to keep your room. From the Hoch I heard that Paul Moegling has a great dislike for his father, telling him even go way the very next day of his arrival from Europe, the father it seems need the rode too often. From Mrs. Irion an affectionate note of Adieu. the Herres will take an other house to live and hope to be well enough to begin his work again. The Sauvains miserable; will perhaps come up she is anceinte! which is the cause of her requiring the hills! Mr Bennett came to fetch his family, they will leave after 12 days. If by that time I see that the Strobels will not be able to leave this about the 20th of January I would perhaps go down with the B. He is a nice looking man, not high, nor affected, whether he is converted we do not know, but he sits at meetings without speaking his word; but Mrs. L. does enough for him. 27th Mrs. Woodfall came here for the sisters prayer meeting which was formerly in Mrs L. house; but now here; for the Bennetts will be packing up. We were but three Mrs Woo. Stroble and I. Marie having gone to Kaity. Mrs Wood. prayed I liked it she is not yet free. He is nice, Evening after 6 came Tom with four photograph for our sons so each of them has one, I wish Frederic to have the choice there is a large one of Marie and I. Marie had already written H and S. names on it at the time we had but two for them all; but now that there are five let Frederic have what he likes best Then David; for I hope every one of them will be pleased though two of them that is of the photogh have but Mama. I would have liked very much to send a present to each of them by Mr Fritz; but I have truly nothing. Give them dear papa some money at least to the big sons and to the little ones what you know to be right. Ask the money from Uranie. 29th Paid a visit to Mrs Steavens very dead with a niece of her who laughs at hearing the word spoken to her aunt, both of them on Sunday ride to Jacatala not so much to hear the preaching I fear as to fish a man for the girl; who is usually accompanied back by one of the officers. Paid also a visit to Mrs FitzG fine soul indeed she does all she can for the soldiers and their families inven plum pudings, cakes and a tree for the children Christmas. I have just heard that at Calicut they had the Cholera at school one of the girls died several who were attacked have recovered. they are now all well, we hear often from Ann Samuel s wife. Mrs L said she had read in an English paper, the purpose of 60 and some Ministers of the Eng church who are to leave it and form a free church. 31 Mr Fritz letter of Adieu has just come, humbling himself much full of thanks, left today Cali. says that Glasson has come and if he can sell his plantation will return to Eng. Plenty visitors at Cali. Pfleideres, Shlunks and Burcard, The horse keeper heard also from Rama that there is much Cholera, at Calicut

I have written to Convert to send us if possible the mission bandy to Medapaliun where I trust we shall come on the 23d of this month. We shall have difficulty with Coolies and Carts; for the regiment from Jacatala is to go to Cannanore, though have been but a short time here, one suposes it is on account of their misbehaviour to the Bargers. First Ja<nuar>*. May you with the dear boys have a good year and many blessings. I went to hear Mr. Clarck who had a good preaching. He is very sorry to part from the soldiers since some have of late been brought to the truth. He wrote about it to the Governour, that the Minister should be attached to the regiment, the answer was "very true; but for the present it was so settled. they should move without him So Rhienius is to have them one 1000. The FitzG will like him. Harkness will probably have to stay here. I am glad for them. They have just now Capt and Mrs White she is the sister of Mr Grove the planter, they have been brought up in Germany both nice pious people. I saw Miss Coombs. Of late the order from the Governor has come that the Magistrates or Collectors are no more to provide coolies or cards for any travelor every body must help himself and be at the merci of the Natives who are most impudent charge what they like, do all they please. Of late the cooly here had been already increased of a 3d formerly a cooly took 3 <three> Rs from Calicut to the hills now 4 Rs 8 as and they will take one third less of a load than they did. Hoch seemed to be much displeased with Garthwaite. He owes still the money for the belts. The Lord is good and I trust He gives a new season to dear Marie! No letter from you this time 4th J. Yesterday Mrs. Strobel was safely delivered of a son after 11 hours of labours during the night. Midwife Mrs Ceassey* and the Dr were present, Mother and child are doing very well, she has still diarrhea; but they say it will pass when she comes to the low country. Today or tomorrow the party will embark Some at Mangalore the next at Cananore. Yours of 22d Nov has just come I have already been prepared by the Lord as if I would have to go home. And it is much softer than I had anticipated. I thought I would have to go to care for your health which was worse than here, but it does not seems so. however I beleive it is better for you to stay there than to return; you could not bear the climat, and though I would rather live here than there I am ready for Gods good will. My regret is that I am a poor creature and unable to fill up the place your help meet would require in a town. You will see many people and I so unfashionable; but what! God can still do something with nothing for the time. Adieu and love to all
 yours J. Gundert

I have now settled to go down as soon as possible, so as to be longer at Calicut. Your next we bring us the decisive news the dear boys must excuse me for this time kisses to them all

The regiment of Cananore goes to China
