Rev. Mssers Greiner and Co, Mangalore, post not paid

 <23 Mrz 39>*

My dear brethren!

Having landed Thursday <21/3>* at 2 o clock I immediately walked to the house (3/4 of an hour nearly). With difficulty I got the drunken gardener, who has care of the compound, to come down the terraces of the Dharma mount (this is the name people gave to Strange's house) and to bring me in the boat over the inlet of the sea which separates the house from the other Taleicheri dwellings. I saw plenty of servants, no wonder: when entering whom should I find lying upon one of our couches but our old friend West. Major Law had left several days ago, and strange to say, which he went with his wife in boat to Cochin had left a Mr Brecher (I do not know whether I write well) with his wife, both Europeans, he formerly Clerk and Schoolmaster on the hills, with all their family and Law's only remaining baby (- the 2 other children he sent with Harris to Europe) in the house to wait for his return. West, who with his wife and Mrs Wilton, an officer's lady from Cannanore had passed a week or 2 at Mah‚ for change of air, had also come to the house on his return, and thus I found no room empty. West was happy to see me, and brotherly as ever. But his 2 children, and Mrs Wilton's little girls (one only a month old) had a terrible noise during the night. They quickly emptied the room HG for me, and here I was quite comfortable dined and tea'd with them. All the house full of furniture and valuable books, left for the new Station! I was quite confounded and had to make a very grave air not to betray my astonishment at all these things. I appeared to myself as a newly beaten Cavalier, and could not yet understand all these things. But the trials in future will make me perhaps to understand it. I sent immediately word to Michael, to get leave and come here. saw Strange's butler, now baptized Wicleff Emanuel, and like him. Heard that Mr Silva had all the confidence of Mr Str. and had to tell us, to keep the things, as many as we should want, and the others should be sold by auction (__________) Nonsense! we can keep them all, if the house does not break under them, or at least we can keep them till Mr Strange comes out again. But - no list will appear! Well I wait a little longer: for all things are yet to new to me. One thing is quite plain: Silva is not worthy of Mr. Str's confidence. For from all I heard (Friday) from Michael, he is that R Catholic gentleman, brother in law of J Brown Esqr, who went with me to Anjercandi and there showd all the emptiness and Hündischness of his character. When Buttler was baptized by Lugard (just before Str's departure) Silva wanted to be god father (why - ?) the Chapl. refused because he is Rom Cath. Since that time he hates the butler: has also got out as many things from Mr Str. as he could (old clothes etc). - West told me that evening that Chinappen had behaved most shamefully at Cannanore - with a girl in Paul's (the Cat.) service: the other edition (of Michael, told on Friday) sounds very differently. Paul seems to aspire at the Guruship of Cananore and reads now Churchprayers in Tamil: he formerly got away Aaron - as I hear - now he was jealous of Chinappen because of his wife, and so stories were made up. Lugard took Chinappen to light his candles as Church Peon. - Friday <22 März>* morning Mich. came. I am happy to say, that some invisible hand has overruled the Anjercandi business (z. B. früher hatte John immer 2 Mädchen rechts und 2 links in seinem Comptoir, zum Zeitvertreib von Augen und Händen während des Rechnens - dieß ist jetzt abgeschafft, Lernpreise werden an Knaben ausgetheilt (!), es ist gesagt, daß jetzt öfter Padres kommen werden, und eifriger gelernt werden müsse etc). - Paid visits to the Andersons after 12o ("Madame not dressed" - off) then to J. Brown. He was astonished to see me, kind as I toward him, complained of Mich. having once gone for 4 days to Cann. and shut up school and Church - under the plea of having been ill - I heard it all, allowed that all men make mistakes, and that his formerly acknowledged zeal should make some excuse for anything that might have passed. Agreed to! - The butler had asked Silva to come today - but I waited in vain, for the evening - shall write a kind note to morrow, to come and transfer the title deeds. - The drunken gardener mentioned above has been found stealing some of Mrs West's things during the night. I shall get him away after I have a* better one. Spoke with Mich. about his Tamilrelation at Anjerc. in whom ... years he has unvaried confidence (not surely converted - but desirous* ... Protest. instead of Rom Cath.) perhaps he will come to the house as ... watch man, and he and his wife (as sweeper) might afterwards be taken ... the Miss. service. Some people, M. said, intend soon to send their children to us: Brown and others want an efficient Engl. school. That Mr. Brecher mentioned above, who is no more wanted by Maj. Law, he being married, should like to offer himself as schoolmaster (through West). I wait till I hear it directly from him (again not sure whether converted, but has the best characters of Shortland etc). - The expense for building the house, and shaping the Mount to its present form with terraces, roads cut through the red stone, mangoes from Bombay, water course by a large wheel, chunam built wells of 100' deep etc can not be under 15000 rupees. Of the furniture I will as yet say nothing, except that there appears to be plenty, even lamps, plates, wine etc - all left for our use (but a certain friend will say - "except you prefer leaving it to me"). The outhouses, stables etc all red stone and chunam - might easily be converted into schools and even dwelling rooms. The house itself seems to do for 4 unmarried brethren; or 1 married, 2 unmarried: to lodge the girls has then some difficulty. - With S. I shall transact nothing without West and the butler being present: and after all I must perhaps take the advices of the gentlemen. But I think it most necessary to beat the iron whilst it is hot, and should not even mind to stay here, till my wife and Br D. could come, and then I might yet go up for a while to the conference. But certainly of that what God has destined us to have, nothing can be lost, therefore I will also not be to anxious for saddle and chatrack after the fine young racehorse has been given. Well dear brethren may the Lord enable us to run a good race for the little time we are here. I feel more than ever a stranger and sojourner, because I dread nearly - with all joy - to touch this and that as being mine for a season, fearing, I may do my stewardship very badly, and the Lord may at last ask: I have made such fine preparations for you - and what was the use you made of it. Today I spent some hours miserably in diverting myself with the nice books, travels of newest date etc. Dear West said "we will have a little selection, and then a burning!" To this I answered: Stop a little. Write me some of your thoughts on all these little things. - `A ma chŠre Madame missionaire que faut il dire? Je viendrai bient“t? ou viens bient“t? oh oui viens Seigneur! c'est assez. Yours HG.

Letter received but not yet read. Can not come so quickly. Silva will not come here, but wants me to come to his house!!
Gott mit uns Yours HG.

Again something strange: Mrs Wilton says she certainly can not leave before the 1st and Mr Br. says that about the 5th of next month he may receive a letter from Major Law where to go to. So the plague of strange servants will be about the house all the time.

If Hiller could come down and thatch the house (Verandah etc) before Monsoon - now is the cheapest time - it would be a blessing. But I do not like leaving it only to servants. Silva is not yet come. In no case can I leave before Tuesday. Greetings to all. am sorry for you poor wife but can't be helped.

the house has 3 roofs the middle over the sitting room etc also the godowns have 3 roofs. the middle covers the kitchen with tiles.
_______________
