 1Calw 28th April 1867
My dear Marie and partner

We were much comforted to get such good account of your health. The Lord be praised. He can also keep you in health in Hydrabad by the hot weather; the whole depends on the state of mind; if we learn to be pleased for little strength and comfort God gives more; that is, if it is good for us; but the important thing is to leave it with the Lord, having a good conscience before Him, He does not require more work from us than He gives us strength; only we have to learn to spend this strength for Him, to his service alone, faithfully, so little to do with the world and undecided christians as possible; in mission work, in Church and school work, we can be as Martha it profiteth little, while, Marys mind alone fits us to serve so as to glorify God.

I have sent your last letter to Vevey; for your friends there ask so much after you; that I am glad to have something for them.

We had 6 days of cleaning thank God that it is over, these works in which you used to help so much remind me of you ability and quickness, specially möbles and books cleaning. I trust our Mission feast will also go well, Yesterday I had the sewing woman to make a little dress for Julia and Mariele G in Ameri. We had a letter today from H. he does not say much about his soul; but one feels that he is an other man, specially a feeling of his being nothing; it is just what is wanted; for Empty vessels can alone be filled: I have confidence the Lord will still make something of him to his service and Glory.

Your schwegerin Jetthen I has made me a bonnet out of my old silk one which fits me very well and looks nice. Catherine Zahn s bride has made the nudel for soupe and will help us at the Mission feast, she is nice I think they will be happy together. By the Wöhrles and Fink it goes well. Paul tries to get at Mr Keiser Anna s brother; but it is some what difficult; the Mama talks so much, he is still very ill, one feares. bine fras. Miss Baumeister sends you hearty love, as als many others. Gross, Hanely, Kathe Louise All in 2me ‚tage. Haireng, Dörtenbach, etc.
