 <? 4>* 1In Jan 672
My dear Sir <Wallis.>*

After receipt of the Berhampore letter of 6 Dec 66 I placed myself in communication with your brother's old Correspdt, Dr Ostertag and am now enabled to let you know what we think about the matter.

To me it seemed very probable that a house such as your brother desired might be found at Stuttgart, which being my birthplace is best known to me. There was however one point, on which I conceived some doubts. Your brother wants a place where the young lady might regularly attend the Church of England service. Now Stuttg has a fine English church, lately built, but of the ministrations <Revd Parminter>* therein a correspdt of the Record (12 Oct 66) gives a lamentable description, which common report does not contradict. This circumstance led me to look upon Stuttg. as an undesirable spot, but Dr Ostertag supposed that a good home education might easily neutralize the amount of evil conveyed by the Romanizing tendencies of the present minister.

Basle was another place to be taken into consideration. Dr Ostertag deemed it very likely that he might find there a family of the very highest character, where all desirable qualifications meet, where f.i. English is spoken as well as French and German, and two excellent daughters would serve as compagnons. It is the house of the Rev. Mr Stockmeyer. English service is to be had there - certainly during the summer, at present also in winter time.

Dr Ostertag mentions also Bonn as a very suitable residence, where the German spoken is freer from provincialism, whilst at the same time a greater choice of English families might make the change more gradual to your tender plant. He would be glad to make farther enquiries in this direction, if it should be thought preferable. As for me I confess that Bonn is to me a foreign place; Dr Ostertag would therefore have to undertake the whole respsbly

It seems best to let you know what our mind is on the subject before we take any farther steps. I for one should advice Basle, where the family Stockmeyer offers the very best guarantees. On the other places families of the same standard might be found, but they are still to be sought out! 
Will you kindly inform me, how you view the matter, and may the Lord direct it in such manner that your wishes may be accomplished.
