 Calw 20th June 1867
Dearest Marie

Your letter has just come Charls had again fever; I hope with you that it is but a cold, as he has toothach too. may God make him soon better and able to work for Him. I am glad you had such a fine time in Cotry, I understand that you long for communion with true christians, perhaps the bride of Shirt is a proper person!

We are just finishing to pack your box, from Stutg you get several things; Gorssmama Isenberg will have written what she sends. About the eau de Cologne Jettle will write, you get 5 bottels from Mr Zilling and writing about it. He gave 10 bottles for the Mission so we send 5 to H, 2 to Samuel 2 to Tantele and one to Diez. among the play things you will find some from Elise Weitbrecht who had a great joy to contribut a little, first a nice little work basket, a pincouchin filled with beeds, 2 fiches, still a few other things, please mention it to her when you have them, The Lord gives us much joy in our three youngest sons, every letter breathes some new life, the Lord is indeed very gracious to us. Oh we are happy parents, when I consider many others I must exclaime, pure mercies of God. The poor Gross have but sorrows with theirs, A propos the heidelbeer which she would send are not yet ripe, so we cannot wait so long to send you the box. 
24. Yesterday I went with papa to Altstaig for a Mission feast. Kees was also there; the last who spoke was Günzler, on the words in Phil all knees shall bow before Him in the Name of Jesus. "In the begining, the Missionary and the societies had faith went in the name of Jesus, without stick and support, now there is little faith therefore they want strong sticks and the pockets full. Who is to be Missionary? those who have learnt to bow their knees." It was very nice, papa spoke on the words in Rev 3,8. very good, the more so that Mr Kees had made it rather black and hopeless, just before papa, showing the different difficulties which one meets in the work. To day papa is in Neubürg, hard work, being already not very well. he has to much to do and there is little prospect of geting some rest. 
Louise is going to see her family shall be 9 or 10 days absent Jettle and myself with Emanuel shall manage our cooking; if the weather is fine I shall go in the wood with food in a basket, my testament and knitting. A propos the Günslers asked much after you sendung their hearty love to you. 
28 All the fruits in the garden are most beautiful, and in great quantity, papa gets every day some strow berries from our own and from Emelie, the grapes are in abundance, I never had such joy to look at the production of the ground, We have made Kirschen Kocken, when I eat cherry I think of you, who said often before you went, I eat plenty of them, it makes new blood; you could have plenty this year, your boy would be delighted. Miss Kleiber has just come, she goes with our peopel to Bale, So I must conclude, with hearty love and kisses to you three.
 yours J.G.

I just hear that Peregrina is in Stutgart if she cannot come here I shall come to see her for one day during the time papa is in Bale. We are anxious to hear farther about dear Charles.
