 <Calw 25 August 67.>*
Dear Frederic and David

Many thanks for your letter recieved saturday. I have not been able to write sooner, the fearful night we had from thursday to Friday, with work in papas room made that I felt unable to write; It was really fearful to hear the bells ringing again and again, some peopel had been working in Walkmühle till half past one, at three the Italainers who work vis a vis at the railway saw the fire in the upper room and came near to awak the peopel these who were accostomed to hear noise from the laboerors wood not move, till stones passed through the windows with crying fire, fire, had they not been than awaked, they would have been burnt in their beds. Fritz Wöhrle who had come rather sad from the Stutgarts tuchmess. slept in his house; as the mother heard the bells ringing she came to her son saying, there is fire some where, he trembling said yes in Walkmühle, he had heard it but had no strength to go there, the Servant brought the Horse from WalkM and beged him to sit upon and ride there which he did with pain for he could scarsly stand at four O'clock the pomps came but the fire continued till 6, most of the machines are destroyed, one has hapily saved much of the wool, the Italieners have worked much, furnitures and bedding have almost all been saved, much spoiled of course. the Decan came at once to Mrs. Wöhrle comforted her, went to the fire to see and reported her how it stood. Fritz wept the whole day, he looks very miserable, he looses more than hundred thousands Goulden the fabricks was secured; but such fabricks get only a third of the value. and the wool was not secured, so that they loose a great deal. Lamparder with his wife were in Eslingen There were 30 peopel at work there who now have no work; the fire has begun, (one supposes) by the old wool above where some had been at work late at night. Poor Fritz is to be pitied for he bought the WMühle against his relations and friends will, all advised him not to buy it! till now it costed him much to repair. May God give them grace to learn thereby to set their hearts and affection on the unmoovable things above. In the same night Emill Ansel made his parents very uneasy, they percieved that he was not in bed looked every where for him, in all the houses where they supposed he might have gone, in the Nagold at every bath places, for they feared he had been drown in bathing the father was so affected that he could no more walk, Knorr and Steiger led him from the river home, As one rung the bell and cried fire, Emill came home, saying he had been watching a poor sick man! had not thought to tell his parents about it.

The fire might have been quenshed sooner; but there were not vessels or Küble enough to drow water out of the Nagold one had to fetch them in Calw. there were many peopel who stood by without helping, the helfer Schmid helped much to safe things Gustave Wagner and big Wagner helped with their peopel, and got Caffe and bread sent from their houses for their peopel, 
I have had no other letter from papa, he has very likly much to do. Frederic or David might write to Paul about the fire in Walkmühle. Seyfried I have saluted from you he has still heimweh after his mother whom he loved much. the father is not a nice man.

Pardon that I have not written to each separat; but write twice the same story was not necessary I thought

Adieu dear Children
 yours J. Gundert
