 125 Dec 1867
Dear Marie

The Lord be praised for the good news we had again from and yours. so at last dear Margaret came. We are very glad to have her photograph, her child seams to be a nice boy very fair too, please give her my hearty love, I trust the Lord will bless your being together and that she will find with you hapiness and comfort. Theodor will be glad to have a companion. To day I found Mrs. Wohrle by Mrs Bätzner her sister who is ill, she told me that tomorrow, the blankets are to be sent to England, we join to it a hat for you and one for Charle, one pound of chocolat, heidelbeer, Jettle sends you stockings for your son, some pictures, and a fine dress. In the box you have recieved you got one piece of cloth for trawsers and one for a Coat for Charles as you had asked, the white apron is from the Miss Haas, the other from Emelie.

papa with his three sons and Jettle are just in the Stunde by Muller, we were all in Hirsau where papa spoke on the 6th of Mattheu. Paul went the morning to Liebenz where he help the minister to give the Lord supper. Yesterday at ten o'clock came the two sons from Stutg, no less than 5 omnibus full therefore so late, after ward we had our little Christkindle in Jettles room, so we went late to bed, Paul got an uberzier; that is an old one from papa dyed, black, Frederic a flanell shirt, David 6 tachtücher money and goodle, Emelie gave also something to each of them. GrandMama sent us very nice letters from Emma, description of the journey and stay on the hills, Frederic must already return tomorrow to Stutgart, David can stay till monday, it is a great joy to have them, the friends of Paul will come afterward, which is rather to be so a little alone with our own. In the box is a girdel which Henriete Fillinger gave me, it may be of use to help the expected little girl to walk or the boy of Margaret. Colin is the son of Felix our neibour the mother has died

one of the lebkuchen is from Mrs Isenberg
