 Calw 23 August 1867
Dear papa

The piece of news I have to write is a sad one. Poor Fritz Wöhrle s Walkmühle has bunt last night, He returned yesterday from the Stutgart Messtuch rather disapointed; for he scarsly sold any thing there, This night at half past three there was a cry fire in Walk he quickly rode in, but the fire was so terrible that it is almost all destroyed; happily the Italieners saw the flame while the people were quietly esleep, they sthrow stones at the windows, soon the peopel where up and through the assistance of the Italieners much of the things were saved. Helfer Schmid helped much too, the Decan came very soon to Mrs Wöhrle who had remaind in her house, he comforted her and read with her she told me. Mr. Lamparter with his wife were in Eslingen. They are greatly distressed, The house is, it is true secure; but such fabriques get only a third of the lost by the security. May God set their mind on the things above! It was really fearful to hear the noise and the belles ringing, three times, at 4. 5. and 6 oclock, it went on burning. inspite of the pomps pooring water. I have not yet been there: One says that Frith W. is weeping the whole time. Many peopel shall now be without work.

Since I wrote this I went again to see the Wöhr Fritz is still in the Mühle, the place where the Erion live is preserved so that they can still sleep there, the other things which have been safed have been partly brought to the Ws house. This evening one expect the Lamparters one dread to see him, as he has always been against Fritz regarding buying the Walk Mühle. Emill Ansel gave <caused> a bad to his parents who looked for him the whole night searching him every where, with the secret fear he had been drown in bathing, as one cried fire he appeard, saying he had been watching a sick man! It does not seem to me that there are important letters among the ones here waiting for you. Mama and Peregrina have gone to Liebenzel. I long for rest; for in Stutgart I had little, it was also very hot poor Anna can scarsly bear to sleep in the room shut up; as Adolph will have it without air, I slept little it was as hot as in India. Now here we have rain and cool.

Adieu dear papa.
 Yours J.G.

Frederic is not yet quite right, love from all here. Mama Isenbergs Louise etc.

L. has been with the helfer; but the things are not yet finished her prist has written to the helfer that the prist here from Weiler Stadt is to speak with her
