 Calw 2d-14 May 1867
Dear Children <Marie>*

Yesterday you were with us in spirit I have no doubt. We had a nice day About 80 friends together in our Salle. Mr and Mrs Mörike asked especially to be rememberd to you, every one of course asked after you; and the picture of Hy with yours and baby were much admired. I did not go to church others will tell you how it was; I had at home still a few things to put in order; and specially to mend David's clothes, who wanted them again quickly, all went on well, Emelie helpt two days, brought all that which we wanted; in the kookroom were Ernestine from Nagold and, Catherine, Zahn's bride. Mr. Kittle with Paul, help the gentlemen with Bier, after all was over these two with Papa put the remaining bier in bottles while we were washing the tumblers, Schnierle provided us with bread and tumblers for bier, there were a great quantity of young ladies, perhaps because of Sophie Z who is to be married on tuesday next and wednesday goes to Bal. Mr Würth pleased us well, he is some what dry, slow, but we like him better than we expected every one of us. According to David's letters God is working in Charles Weigle which gives us much joy.

11th By your last I see that dear C is again ill it is a great pity that you returned so soon to Hydrab just in the hot season, you should have taken the leave greanted to you. Mr Shirt would have taken care for himself. However I trust you get soon the monesoon to refresh you, poor Charles already so weak, so thin how will he be with such attacks, 
Last wednesday I was in Stutgart a few hours returned on the same day. I went on account of tante Emma who is unwell, she had abscess under both arms. they have burst and feels now better; but weak: I hope she will soon come to us. Mrs Isenberg with Jetthen came after dinar, both are remarkably well, Mama and Emilia were with tante too. I did not go to Olga Strasse one spoke of Anna having had a wash, tuesday she had four Böglerin and wednesday still three the fornoon, she is not quite well; some symtoms of the old disease it appears. I have invited her to come to Calw for a visit. I do not know whether she will come.

You ask about cheese, you will not be able to make much cheese with two goats after your house hold; do not give to your baby pure goats milk put water in it. For cheese I used to let two or three mass of milk be saur or curdels, in which one puts a little salt turn it with a wood or silver spoon put it in a towel, hung it, let all the water go out; when pretty dried put it in a model; (I will try to get you one made here papa thinks it wood be rather heavy for no purpose for you will never be able to make cheese though you had three goats) leave it one or two days in it, they are of wood with wholes at the botom for the water to go out, and a presure upon it. About poor Margeret it is difficult to say any thing, I wish she were again in India, she has become humbel and woold likely keep the school well, she is very capabel, knows all sorts of works! she would soon learn the language, knowing already several but how to get her? to us she wrote we should not write to her, till she writes again, not knowing where she might be; but papa can advise you better it is not a small matter to charge one self of a person

Next week we have wash, so much to do. Mrs Isenberg will send a hat for your boy, she must buy it pretty large. We have beautiful weather scarsly a spring from winter to summer. We are anxious to hear farther about dear Charles and you all.

I took Paul to the Keiser to see the young man who is ill; he tryed afterward several times to see him; but there were always some obstacles, one day too ill an other time visites etc. I feel justified that P did what he could; the mother there is a terrible drawback. Anna knows that one cannot speak in her house and should therefore come to us; she told me that she goes to Widman's meeting where she finds food. I paid a visit to Mrs. Wöhrle, she was in Reutlig where they are all well. her niece Lohtholz is very ill, till now the Dr had no hope; but to day he found her some what better. I visit her she sends you love. she is too weak to speak. it is nervous fever it seems, with Paul one can learn the secret to have life, that is short, but frequent prayers, let us do like him and believe

Adieu dear children we are with you in the spirit
 Yours J.G.
