 Corcelles 25 Sept 1867
 <in Calw 28 Sept - In Mt. Clemens 4. Novbr.>*

Dear papa

Many thanks for your good letter with all the others, it has done me good. the Lord be praised, the one of Samuel specially is nice. May God give to Fink and Wöhrles that which is better than a son that is himself. Paul gives you all the news he seems to injoy his trip the Lord has been very gracious to us, met much love every where. after Marie one ask much, the letters dear Jettle wrote to Marie Monnard have been read every where, and really I see that one prays much for them here about, and are dearly loved, in Vevey and Rolle it is really touching, here too. Well it is really valuable to be known and loved from children of God who pray indeed. The blessings dear Rochat has left are still felt and visibel; though not in his family, for all except one are wordly peopel, the son Doctor in Rolle is not fit his name the eldest daughter still Catholique, the little church gathered by Rochat is very few in number; but there is life, the Darbists have also decreased since the rupture which took place for some years some have joiened l'eglise libre, others remain for themselves. Marie has larger view* of heart than formerly. As we have not yet seen Neuchatell with Paul we will D.V. go tomorrow there, and as you allow us to remain still a little, we shall spend still here the sunday, then go monday morning to Bale, if possibel leave the same evening, at least I hope we can pay in the afternoon the few visits we owe, that is, Ostertag, Martin, Hoch. etc. As we shall be too late for the Indian post I send hearty love from myself and all the dear peopel, I trust the Lord will spare dear Theodor, though he appears to have a weak stomack, May his papa and mama learn much through these fears and anxieties and at last full of faith and confidence say I can all things with my Lord who lives in me.

Mlle Inslin has got a great name here, every where one asked "qui est cette Dlle qui ‚crit ou traduit les lettres de Marie quelle perfection. Ah qu'elle nous fait plaisir etc. I have been much with you and salute every one with a tender kiss specially dearest Jettle, if I do not write you it is mere want of time not of love be quite sure, love to dear Emelie and household, to Louise I am glad to hear it is well. We begin to long for home; but as it is likely the last time we see my sisters! I use the time allowed

Paul likes if I go along to Tubing, with love to all
 yours affectly J.G.

love to dear Frederic and David their letters do me good
