<Antw auf 81.)>* Calw 18 </24>*th April 1867
 <In Mt Clemens 15 Mai 67>*
Dear Children

This morning very early I was with you in thoughts. Saw dear Christine preparing a few things to surprise her dear husband, heard Julia crying to the little one heute is papa's geburtstag they come and kiss you, they will with Mama make papa very happy if possible, and it is easy to do it, because papa has learnt that in Jesus is our happiness, takes his wife and children as a gift from Him, He knows that the natural birthday is not the important day and not to be compared to the spiritual birth of which he does not know exactly the day; but the year, and it is enough, he has become a child of God knows his heavenly father, and wishes to live to his glory with his household.

Only imagine since I wrote I went to church we ate our dinnar and what comes a paquet and what? your photograph on your birthday, so we were living as it were with you. it gives uns indeed a great joy. You look so nice your dear partner and the beautiful Marie she reminds me of our Christianele who was admired of every one, and dear Julia looks also very nice better than on the one before sent. I thank you heartily for this present. Now to day may God bless you richly Jea with himself abiding in you and making you a blessing for many: so that you see this year spiritual children born through the word of God preached to them by you.

There will be an opportunity to send you a small paquet; as we already rejoiced Jettle and myself to be able to send something papa said no no I have as much as the paquet can contain or rather that which I have to send is as much as one dare send per opportunity, so our joy is already turned to a sigh. <(s ist nicht so schlimm!)>1

Till now it has been raining constantly, so that some peopel said, it looks as in the year 1816 as if God would send us a real year of famine; but to day the sun shines which gives real joy 23d. We are very busy cleaning the house; Mr Widman the Notar was much pleased at your Fotograph specially at Christina's Paul and myself were telling how nice it would be if you were here; but the fear of wars in our land makes us to be silent and wait to see what the Lord has for us in store.

With hearty kisses to each of you, parents and children. Yours affectiosly  J. Gundert


 1Calw, den 24. April 1867.
 <In Mt Clemens 15 Mai 67>*
Lieber Hermann!

Dießmal nur einen herzlichen Gruß und nachträglichen Segenswunsch zum 18 Apr. Es war gar nett, daß gerade an diesem Tag Euer liebes Bild kam; wir hatten Alle große Freude dran, namentlich auch am noch nie gesehenen Jüngsten. Heute beim Mittagessen machte es auch die Runde, und da meinte Hr. Notar Widmann, aus dem Gesicht Deiner lieben Christine sehe ein aufrichtiges, treues Herz heraus. Daß Dir der liebe Gott in ihr ein solches geschenkt hat, ist Dir gewiß am 18ten aufs Neue eine Aufforderung zu recht innigem Dank gewesen. Und daß Er Dir und allen Deinen Lieben in immer seligerer Weise offenbare, was Er uns Alles in Seinem lieben Sohne geschenkt hat, das soll mein nachträglicher Geburtstagswunsch sein, wie ers am Tage selbst war.

Leider sind die letzten Briefe von der lieben Marie nicht da, daß ich Dir daraus berichten könnte; sie enthielten Gott Lob! gute Nachrichten von den beiden Reconvalescenten, die nun wieder in Hyderabad an der Arbeit waren. - Vom lieben Elternhaus wird Dir dießmal Paul erzählen, der jetzt seine letzte Maulbronner Vakanz hier zubringt. Es ist eine große Freude, daß er doch wenigstens länger und heimeliger kommen kann als die beiden andern lieben Brüder, von denen der Jüngste namentlich schon ein rechtes Geschäftsleben zu führen hat. Doch Adieu! für dießmal. In schwesterlicher Liebe Deine  Henriette E.
