 Stutgart 21 August 1867
Dear papa,

Many thanks for your letter which came yesterday, I wait for letters from Marie to send you this, it may be they will come here from Calw after I have left this, as I shall go tomorrow morning to Calw instead of evening, on account of Mrs. Isenberg who is coming to Calw tomorrow evening with her two daughters and Mama too, so I go before to prepare a little, since I am here I have been running about, will now see Hebich with David, afterward go to Tante Emma wher the Isenbergs and others are to meet, The two sons I found well, On Sunday I paid a visit to Mrs. Gobat whose sons had come to Calw on friday, He was still absent, she was to fetch him in Pforzheim, he will already have lelf her for England where he is to stay a few monthes, she will come to us with her daughter one day after your return. Sandrezky has been with us a few days; that is during the nights and spent the days with the Gobats. Pardon that I write so short; but Jettle and the sons will write more fully I trust, Mrs. Mulle and Möerke I did not find at home, Emelie found the R.* somewhat cold, the Deuschle much cast down, still I think that she is a little better inspite of windows and doors opened, and fed like other peopel, meat, vegetabel at a certain time, and no sooper eggs every two hours as she used to have at home. He Deuschle is much discouraged; but I believe it will go well, though both of them think she may die in Stutgart, because she feels or fancys herself so weak! Adieu dear papa We think of you and pray for a rich blessing on the assembly  Yours in love J.G.

Paul wrote me a nice letter, full of questions to be answered after your return. Elise Steutel I have seen, she will perhaps come to C. in Septembr. mean while it is full with us. The Isenbergs made some compliments to come; but I felt that it was mere modesty.


 1Stuttgart 22 August 1867.
Mein lieber Papa!


Jetzt sind wir hier wieder allein. Die liebe Mama ist wieder fort. - Entschuldige daß ich die Briefe aufmachte, Mama sagte es mir, daß der an Dich nicht zu schwer würde, das andere (Beilagen <an Mackay, Oehler's, Mama läßts liegen bis Du kommst> von M und Elisabeth) sandte ich eben nach Calw - Von mir hat die liebe Mama alles gehört, und bin ich noch etwas aufgeregt, die Sachen wieder besprochen zu haben, aber im Ganzen wars recht für mich, und ich danke euch herzlich liebe Eltern, daß ihr mich immer noch so traget, aber nicht wahr ihr wäret sonst nicht Eltern. - Gott ist meiner auch noch nicht müde, das glaube ich, obgleich ichs 100mal verdient. Lieber Vater ich würde Dich auch gerne sprechen, aber wie machen? Doch ich will lernen, mit Allem was ich habe zum Herrn Jesum zu gehen, es Ihm zu sagen, Menschen kommen schwer zusammen, er ist immer bereit zu hören und zu helfen. - Lieber Vater adieu. Ich wünsche euch von Herzen Gottes Segen zu eurem Beisammensein.

 Mit herzlichem Gruß und Kuß Dein
 Frieder.
