 Calw 10th Nov 1867
Dearest Marie.

I thank the Lord that you can take so well the addition God is giving you. He can also strengthen you so as to bear the troubels which are behind. The chief thing for you is to keep your mind as quiet as possibel that your nerves be not excited Many weak women get their children comparativly light; but; if the nerves are exited iritated it is much more difficult 
I wish very much that you could get a real good help for your school; but perhaps by this time Margeret is with you. Is your Theodor weaned; what sort of food does he take? It is a great grace that he is so healthy, giving you so little troubel.

You ask what is the account of your things I have not spoken with papa about it; but I think as long God spares us papa to work and get our lively hood he gives you as well as myself most joyfully those trifels As what regards Mrs Isenberg. I do not see that she is in want, she has but Jetthen continually with her and she gets more money than she used to do, she was advised to aske for help from a widows fund in England, from which many who want it less then Mrs Isenberg get help, so that I think she is in no want, her way of living and clothing at least does not let suppose wants is there.

Morgen 10th come the whole family of the Gross they sleep with us and early next morning they go to Stutg from where to Giengen. We had rendez vous for them last monday 14 peopel frauen and Misses, she gave me heidelbeer for you I shall keep them till the blankets be sent; but elas who knows when! Mrs Fink has been here a few days; she looks very sad,

Mr and Mrs. Mogling were here, he is very nice; but he makes the impression as he was but for a short time still of this World, his wife trying to do every thing to please; but one feels a great want of spiritual life much knowlege; but little of dying, it is the same with Emelie Seger; the more I see of her the less I find growth or selfdenyal, she come 3 or 4 times per day, and our proverb in french comes in my mind, "l'agace est un bel oiseau; mais si elle vient trop souvent elle ennuie". entre nous Theodor was with us on his way home from the baptisem of Gustaves girl Johanna, he was very nice and affectionate, 12 yesterday the Gross slept all here, much moved about the farewell; on the whole, little of real life, it seams. 
With a tender kiss to you three
 Yours J.G.
