 1Calw 31 August 1867
Dear children <Marie>*

Many thanks for your last the Lord be praised for having kept you both in health during the hot season, Our dear friends Wöhrle have had a severe trial on the 22d Fritz returned from the fair in Stutgart rather discouraged; for they sold almost nothing, during the night the alarm was given, fire in Walkmühle, he got up unable to walk till the Mühle, one brought his horse, he mounted it trambling went slowly to the place. there stood many people to safe the things; but to quench the fire there were not vessels enough to drow water, one had to fetch them in the town. after all one says it wood be better for him if the whole had burnt, although through the assurance or security he gets only a third of the value.

Mrs. Wöhrle remained at home. had I known it I would have gone to her in the night; but I thought she was also in Walkmühle, however she had the Decan who already before four oclock set by her and read her Gods word. the Lamparders were in Eslingen. they came after they had got a Telegram, Mr Fink too.

I have spent two days in Stutgart, found the boys well. As Mama with Mrs Isenberg and her two daughters were coming to Calw I returned a little sooner to prepare rooms. I am very glad they came I think the Lord has his work in Jettchen though small and scarsly visibel; the Lord will not leave her; With Peregrina I have not yet spoken, she related me much of her sufferings in England but I think she is also wrong in many things, she makes the impression to be very selfwilld and highminded. I hope the Lord will give us grace papa and myself to speak the truth in love with her; but it is a hard work being so deaf and so little inclined to hear. the mother sees well that she is not right but thinks the evel treatements have heardened her. while perhaps her behaviour has irritated the relations in England.

Between us only it seems that Albert is not going on well, the mother does not know, much about him, he scarsly ever visits her, though he comes often in Stutgart I have advised her to go by the Pfleiderer and inquire about him, for they are not satisfied with him, but she does not know it I tell you this that you pray the more for him.

Our Jettle will I suppose relate you of the things she bought for you in Stutgart, Dear Marie try to be as simpel as you can, first thereby you keep a good conscience and you make your self more recommendabel for the English peopel than in dressing or mooving too high, the great thing for you is to work for your Lord and not have the aprobation of great men. you are servants of the Lord see that you please him alone in all things, repeat after Paul if I would please men I would not be a minister of my Lord. the time is short and you shall have to give account. I do not say this because of the things you ask no we are glad to send you things you may want but I feel I must warn you, believe dear Marie that I do not seek to spair money no, but the time is short and we must live for our Lord separated from the world

 adieu kisses to you three
