 Calw 24 Februar 1867
 <In Mt Clms 19. März 67>*
My dear children in America

As I wrote last time I had not yet seen yours of 11th Jan. Oh dear son it has given me a great joy not that you follow us; but the Lord Jea straight on as you say. The Lord be praised. all our children are His property, with Him one has indeed good. I often think of the 23d Psalm as having been fulfilled hither to for me according to body spirit and soul May God give you much hunger and thirst after His holy word, if we will grow we must feed on that bread of life.

Last week we were in Stutgart our dear mother is less well than she used to be; she has often fever, we talked a good deal of you as we went together to Weiblingen for the Investiture of Ernst. We all wish to see you once with your family. Tante Emma is nice she is growing in the knowlege of the <Lord.>* Frederic and David were also with us both are well. Theodor took an omnibus for us all, he came purposly for the occasion, it was nice. Mrs Decan Bührer had prepared dinnar for us all, we were at least 30 together. she asked also after you, and was kind and nice, the children of Ernst are most amusing and upright, very nice, Julia looks very delicat. one hopes the air of Weib. will restore her health. When you hear of Charles and Marie's illness you will thank the Lord that you have been both so spared with your dear ones. May God give you grace to fight the good fight and overcome to such are all the promises. With true love and kisses to you four
 Yours J.G.
