Friederich Gundert

 Calw 31 first Dec 1867
Dear Frederic

I was glad to hear that you are well and happy. Papa wrote about the lamps machine that you might give them one or two creuser cheaper provided that the peopel who take them pay the postage and custom, but if the man will take only the small ones he should pay 14 Creuz the second one 20 the very large 28 not less, try please with Mr. Romiger in case he would take the whole.

Will you also be so kind as to take Mr Currer who is with tante Emma to the christian friends you may know through Mrs. Moerike and Muller he might perhaps get acquinted with other pious peopel. Be kind to him please you know he did what he could for Paul when we were in Vevey. Jettle is writing to Freulein von Reutern to recommand him there, but we cannot send him without having a answer from her whether she will have him take him also in Junglings Verein there he may get acquinted with pious peopel or families, show this letter to David who himself will also try to do what he can I am sure take him to Mr. Hebich Stunde too, I have paid to Jettle the 2 F 24 C for the Chocolade, it remains I think the Merredig

It is too cold for me to travel now. I could not well bear it. I must wait till it is milder in March or so

May the Lord give you a good day with the new year, ye all new with in us; more and more free from selves and filled with His spirit that is the Lord in us.

With love to all our dear peopel
 yours J.G.


1Weiß noch nicht wann ich komme

Heute 1 Jan Miss stunde in Stammh. Gestern gieng Hoffm nach Tüb zurück. Dein Loos ist von Isenbergs
