 Calw 13th October 67
Dear Frederic

I hope that you have a good day with your papa. he will perhaps have told you to give us an account of all the things we owe to Uncle Adolph every thing on one peice of paper be so good and do it when you find time. To day our dear Paul lies in bed. he has cramps just as he had in Corcelles, yesterday after supper he went to bed with a preasure on the stomack we had had three friends to eat with us, and there was potatoes salade which he did eat, whether this was the cause or the whet feet he got in going to Liebensell I do not know. The Dr came and ordered him to drink much luckwarm water to make him to vomit, after womit he felt released; but we had put him mustard on the stomach through which the skin was so iritated that he could not sleep the whole night, and this morning I without thinking gave weken as usual, he ate two and drunk a cup of Coffee, soon afterward came the preasure again, so that he had to take an emetic which worked so slowly that he did not get better before four O'clock afternoon, since that he has slept and just now did eat a little soupe, the first thing since this morning. he is in his papas bed so that I can care for him. Dr Schütz thinks it comes from constipation of which he suffered much formerly and now still a little.

Now 8 OC he has got up and plays piano which is for us a great joy to see him again so well.

Have you perhaps told grandmama about the stockings to be so kind and have them washed by the woman who comes from a Village near Stutgart? 
Now dear Frederic I will say Adieu with best wishes
 yours J.G.

Paul has visited often Gakenheimer, he will soon return to Stutgart 


1I send you here dear Frederic the accounts I have about the debt we have by Unkel Adolph; but I think it is not all. I think that I owe more than this, please look in the book and send me the different accounts in one so that I know how much we are indepted; please do it as soon as you can. I thought to send you this note sooner, but it is remaind as you see till now.

After our return from Tubingen I shall have less to do I hope. 
Now Adieu dear Son
 yours J.G.
