 Calw <3. April>* 1867

Dear Children

Your last letter has caused me a great joy. the Lord is carrying his work in you to Him be praise and Glory. That dear Christine with her brother as they heard of the Beast, settled together that they would not worship her nor take marks of her; is a sighn that God had already planted his fear in their hearts, The marks and names or number of name of that beast will not be so plain, as to be easily distinguished, she exists since long R 17.8. and all those who are not written in the book of life, bear the marks of her and worship her. Children of God even are now and then as over come by her; R 13,7 but they overcome again R 15,2 20,4.

We have now to consider well the fourth verse of 18 chp, compare it with ch 3,10 also Luc 21,34.35.36. We have to go out of the world and of self, and leave many things which are estimed as fine and permitted, that beast has 666 number hard for us to discover which have still power on us, but God is faithful he keeps us, and helps us to get reed of them all, through many tribulations and temptations. I think that the multitude described in R 7,9-17 could also say, tribulations have taught us to wash and clean our cloth in the blood of the lamb and to come out of Babilon and overcome the beast. for in Ch 20,4 we see there but two sorts of conquerors, from which I conclude that those who have not been Martirs, but have died to self to the world, followed their Lord faithfully are counted as having overcome the beast, Dear Children It is worth while if you have found your Lord, to fight ye to give up all what is not God. May God bless you richly 
I am glad Christina s hand is somewhat better, We have a good physicien He does not mistake or vermit his medecine

With hearty love to you and your dear pets
 yours J.G.

Your letters are now clear and nice no more dreams as formerly. You live now of realities The source of joy God gives in the Children, who are now all His property is unspeakably great
