 <29 Novbr 67.>*
Dear Frederic

Many thanks for your kind letter, I am sorry to hear you had again pain in your stomach, you must keep yourself warm, put also your underhosen, you have three pairs,

Please send me a few patterns of unbleached cloth, futter barchen, very strong <ungebleichtes baumwollenes Tuch, ein gröberes und ein feineres Muster.>*

In three or two weeks you will have to send your wash please to send along the two pounds of Chocolat I want them here for Barths Mädele. you then may send me the cloth which I shall tell you after I have seen the musters. The tuch for Mr Bonnet you will have recieved today, I pray that the Lord would make you free from becoming a soldat, May you injoye peace and joy by the spirit
 Adieu Yours J.G.

You did not tell what D. would like In your box you shall also send me two tin box as which are with Gross Mama



Dear David

Although I have nothing to say, I will tell you good night. tomorrow when papa sends this off I shall have work, the Gipser, and put bier in bottels. 
I am blad to hear that you are happy in the Lord, Yes in Him we are happy; but often we find it difficult to abide in him, it requires praying and watching as He has told his discipels.

Adieu dear D
 Yours J Gundert

Frederic should know that Mr. Weisser of Klein Wildbad went monday evening to Liebenzell to see friends in Wirzhaus he drunk probably too much, on his return home, he missed the road and felt in the Nagold, where Louis Wagner found him two days afterward. Poor man is not regretted on the Wagner side no one in the family liked him, and what a death? so sudden! Frederic should tell it to Tante who is interested in the family, please dear David send these lines to Frederic
