 Calw 28th April 1867.
 <R 31 Mai / 31 Mai>*
Dear Samuel.

Your report of Chovay to the Comity has grieved me deeply. how very little feeling and regard for those who have labourd before you in the congregation who labourd with much patience and love with much pity for the poor degraded souls trying by all means to bring them to the Lord. they did not do all in perfection; some things may be blamed; but they did it with the knowlege of their own weakness humbling themselves before the Lord on account of their sins and unfitness in his holy work!

Dear Samuel you have still too good opinion of your self and of that which you can do. that beast self ruleth reigneth more than you think; What is worth before the Lord, love long suffring, patience, broken heart, or a spirit of Judging; of pulling down, making all new? were we able to make all new, it would do, but after many efforts and experiences we must see and acknowlege, I am a poor instrument it is a wonder that God bears me so long in his work, for I am but able to spoil. if left alone for a moment. On the day your report was read to me we had had in our morning prayer the 26 Ch of Prov the 12 verse came forcibly repeatedly in my mind. 
Oh dear Samuel the heart is decitful and wicked above all, who believes this will distrust himself more and more, jea will learn to hate and dispise himself. this knowlege gives us a broken heart and a contrite spirit, in which case alone, God can do something in us and through us. 
Please give my love to the dear Convert, Mullers, Abrahams and others who still remember us, Dear son my note is somewhat hard, pardon, I have not learned to put honey on the border of the bitter cup or plate. God will sweeten it if you take it well
 Yours JG.
Dear Elisabeth

Many thanks for your kind little last billet. I trust you have grace more and more not to live to please each other; but so to live as such who feel continually they are <have> soon very soon to give account to God for the gifts and grace given to them, do not admire each other, for it makes us blind.

Your dear Sister has made me a beautiful bonnet, which fits me well. Frederic was here two days, and Paul remains three weeks, the Lord is very gracious to him, read the word of life, pray, give witness is his chief work. one feels that he walks with God, Frederic and David are also by Gods grace going on well.

With true love to you both.
 Yours J.G.
