 <Corcelles>* 17th Sempt <1867>*
1Dear papa

I began this yesterday in hope to send it of, and we went to Boudri where we remaind so late that I could no more write, In Bale the sitting for the farewell lasted two hours and half. Mr de Sarasin, then Inspector spoke very nice with every one of the bride separatly, of the four Miss Hahn pleased me best, the one of Eslingen Miss Stahl who is to marry a weaner <Digel>* pleased me least, her mother and brother in law were there, Pfarer Lang spoke too, Mr Christ a little in favour of the Industri departement, Mr Ostertag refused speaking, as the others had told all that which was wanted. beside these Gentlemen and Kittle who sope also a litte, these were no men, but several ladies. We spent some hours with the Inspector where wee drunk coffee, she had much to relate of her sufferings and troubes, their second son <Kornelius>* has not passed in the examen, they try the way of Grace of favour I trust they will be favoured. Mr and Mrs. Wurm, and Reiff were exceedingly kind to us, and have invited us on our return to loge again with them. The Inspector excused himself to have had no room all was full. he thanked heartily for our care of Kittle; he might have gone with his brother now; but he refused, having not sufficient time to take leave of his friends! Mrs. Hager is in Würtemberg; I have seen only en passent Mrs. Hoch, Huber, Ostertag. as we left friday early; on our return we may spend one day and half and visit then the peopel.

Here we found my two sisters pretty well, happy to see us, on Sunday jour de jeune in which the ministers are permitted to tell the people all they think or like, we heard the morning Mr Godet an excellent preaching, he reminded me of Rochat, a peculiar gift to help the people to see their sins discovering them in all their forms. after noon it was a poor thing, a blind leading blinds. it was de belle fontaine d'Peseux, the Minister of Corcelles Coulon was ill.

In Boudri we found Mr Parret who salutes you Paul had joy with his son who has just returned from Tubingen where he went to learn German, he has passed his examen in Lausane; but he has still one in Neuchatel to pass in 8 days. He has seen the Oehlers twice likes him better than Bek. 
I have written to Marie Monnard and am waiting for a word about going. We did not find Mr de Pourtalais nor his wife they had gone to Consise. To day Paul went very early to a friend Francois Ducomun who lives half an hour from this. he has a son who was in Germany, he will take Paul on the mountains to see la tablette et le Creux du Vent. he has been converted of late, Paul does not lose his time he goes often to a young man vis a vis. the father is an old christian too Savere with his only son; the mother has died with grief regarding the son whom she indulged too much, now Paul trys with him who speaks Berne Deutch. may God turn his heart, Paul speaks always frensh! he is most amiabel with his Aunts who have much joye with him. Tomorrow D.V. we shall go to Neuchatel. Yours of 16 has just arrived I must wait for Paul to send this and return the one of H. I thank dear Emelie and salute dear Jettle is she perhaps cooking? as you say that Louise is not well, what is the matter again, but perhaps Jettle has sent me love I take it so and send her much love, shall I return sooner if L is ill? love from my sisters to you both love to Mrs. Ritter and L. and others The grapes are not yet ripe. I hope you take daily what is ripe in our garden, yesterday and today is rather cold. I am very sorry to hear that you have a cold, I hope your cheast will be spared without having a cough, love to Emelie and her house


1Lieber Papa!

Blieben also den Donnerstag über in Basel (Kinderhaus, Jac. Amman, lieber Kerle, aber in fleischlicher Weisheit, Inspector, der wegen seines Cornelius, im Landexamen durchgefallen, in Noth, seine Frau sehr gedrückt, bei Herrn Reiff übernachtet, der mir durch seine Liebe sehr wohlthat, ich nahm 4 Lutherbändchen mit, in denen ich gegenwärtig viel lese), nach Olten, Herzogenbuchsee und hieher (so wie Du aufgeschrieben), Tante Uranie holte uns ab, Tante Henriette wegen ihres trinkenden Fritz gedrückt, gebadet einmal, Besuche bei Collin, in CormondrŠche etc, heute nach Budri wollen wir gehen; ich habe einen jungen Elß* Collin gefunden, 10 Tage älter als ich, der in Bern Deutsch lernte, war früher schon angeregt, aber nachgelassen, vor 15 Monaten starb seine Mutter, lieber Mensch, habe Hoffnung für ihn; ein alter Mann, Pietist, war hier und lud mich morgen ein, mit ihm die Umgegend zu besehen; ich lerne ziemlich viel französ, glaube auch, es schon ein bischen besser zu können.

 Mit Grüßen an Alle, sammt Dank für das
 Zettelchen und die Briefe
 Dein Paul.
Corcelles. 17. Sept. 67.

Dem armen Walter schreibe ich vielleicht von Calw aus, Reiff vielleicht auch, an dem ich in MB. viel Freude hatte.
