 Calw 12th June 1867
 <In Mt. Clemens 1. July. 67>*
My dear Children

Many thanks for your last letter which has again rejoieced us, there is no such joy in the world as to hear that the children are brought to the Lord and grow in his knowlege. the world and all that which is in the world is very little in comparaison to this knowlege in which we have Eternal life. yea Eternal life and with it we have every thing! we are children of God, to us are all the promises, and we see them already realised in part as soon as we can believe. David has been here two days he is nice, Charl Weigle was with him he makes a sad impression, as if there was no real desire to leave sin, nor strength to withstand.

I have just heard that Miss Secondorf whom you know a friend of tante Emma has several sick peopel in her house many have already been cured through prayers and laying of hands, some from Calw are there, she seems to follow the Trudel. The chief thing is certainly that such people be brought to the Lord; and it seems to be the case with some.

I hope your dear Christina s hand is getting better; the Lord is also our physician and we have to learn to pray, to wait in doing this we learn a good deal and get many blessings thereby. I trust your two little ones give you joy, as also some members of your congregation. Tante who would come to bath in Liebenzel is not yet here; it seems that Mama will come before her. David is growing tall. I think, they are the three last as tall as you were 
With a tender kiss to each of you
 Yours affectly Julie Gundert
