 <8 November 1867>*
Cher Frederic

Many thank for your letter. Be not discouraged if it does not look always bright and light, our way is often in deep water, and many temptations. faith will as it were forsake us; the Lord has know it and therefore in pitying us has given us a mean to escape; that is watch and pray. we would not do it often if we were not as it were forced to it. We have thank God a faithful Highprist who because he has been tempted like us is abel to help us.

Still seven weeks and we shall D.V. see each other again

Love to all our dear friends, specially Gross Mama who has I suppose a great joy in her little Johanna how is Tante Emma?

Adieu
 Yours J.G.


Dear David.

You are very busy I suppose as we come near Christmass. I hope you keep yourself worm, that you may not catch cough.

Emanuel beged to get curry for the last day he was here, so he had it yesterday, and shall get the rest on monday when they shall come altogether to spend the last night in order to leave with the post of halfpast four the morning tuesday. Perhaps Mr Mögling brings us news from you, we expect them this evening.

Adieu dear son
 yours J.G.

What do you hear of Hebich and what is doing Eymann?


Dear Frederic here is a blanket not very warm of course; but to rapp yur feet it may do. You should also put on your plumon at the feet your uberzier so that the plumon remain fast on the legs. tell also the servant girl to give you a bed flash or a krug. if you feel still cold I shall buy a blanket or send you one of the Gast Zimmer. you must freely let me know I shall do it with pleasure.

Adieu dear Son
 yours JG.
