 Calw 19th March 1867
 <In Mt Clemens 12 April 67>*
My dear Herman

At last a letter from you the time has appeared long to me this time since we heard from you. thanks for all the news you give us. We shall be glad to get a pfotograf of your two dear children, Marile gets her teeth rather late; but it is almost better, All the words or play you relate of your pets interest us truly. We think often of you and thank the Lord that you are so happy with your dear Christine, I value her very much. I look with great pleasure at her picture. Her mind about a servant girl is mine too. Could I do without a servant I would be glad. Although one has here less difficulties than in America there are still enough to wish to be rather alone; a Mistress must often do the will of the servant in order to have peace! besides one has often disagreable things through a girl who reportes outside the things she hears at home and often in a different way than she heares.

By this time you will have heard that Charles and his wife have been ill, and Charles is still; so that he must have a change of air and who knows whether they can really live longer in Hydrabad. The beginning has been very fine, now come the trials. your begining has been hard and now you have <it>1 better, so every one must have its part of tribulation; the needful thing is that we learn to Wash and clean<se>1 our souls in the blood of the lamb through these tribulations Reve 7,14 If we learn this we may afterward say, it is good for me to have been tried; I believe that sickness and trials are in Gods heands mitle <means>1 to help us to know ourselves, to know God and to teach us to fight and overcome. 
Our dear Paul finds <it>1 often difficult to go on in God's ways. he has a tendency to put himself again under the law, so that he looks more to work than to grace. Just now he is rather unhappy. Frederic seems really to make progress. David has high and low seasons but on the whole God is very gracious to him. he is by nature a whole man, real charactere and of course proud, so that the Lord must again and again put him down, Hebichs preachings are a blessing to him. In seing Ludwig G. I felt how very thankful we are to be to God who has made all our children His own, poor Ludwig he made a sad impression on us all.

Ja dear Herman It is the grace of God alone which has kept you all and made you to be different from him and so many others, To God be the glory and praise.

With a tender kiss to you four.
 Yours affectly J.G.


1Jettle ist nicht da zum Abschreiben, ihre Tante zieht Apr nach Kornth, jetzt soll sie sich letzen.

Mama freute sich über das von Marie Monnard und wird es ihr gelegentlich zu wissen thun. Herzlich grüßend
 V
