 1Calw June 14th 1867
Dearest Marie.

We were much rejoiced to hear that you were both well, it is good that you could spend some time in a cooler place than in H I trust it will do good to both of you and also the wonderful boy will get strong. Mrs Gross was here lately, she will send you heidelbeer, you should then keep them for the time of need, when one of you has diarrhea use them as medecine, not make a feast to your children of them.

Bertha Weitbr's Mother from Schondorf is here I injoye her she is a nice christian person. she showed us her daughters letters, they get news every month only. Apropos dear Marie evoid to tell in the letters which are to be read by others your riding out the evenings, your sitting on the rocky chair, or your head servant, You know our peopel cannot understand those things, and it is better they get no occasion to talk. We like to know every thing and are glad for you of any comfort; therefore English rather. Mrs Finkh is still here, got your letters to read, I fancy she is somewhat cool, I may mistake

9th the box for India is in my room and we are putting in gradually the things as they come Emelie has made theodor a beautiful pinefore, David and Ch Weigle are here, the last looks sad and unhappy; but not yet repentance to life.

Mr. Weitbrech from Bale is to come one of these days and papa sends me with him to Corcelles, I would have gone on the 26 and remained in C. till the end of the feast to return home with papa; but now that there is an opportunity I shall go sooner to be longer with our friends.

Mrs Muller the Widow was here, came to ask whether we could take her Emeli for some time in order to forme her a little, she might of course learn a good deal with papa and Jettle; she is slow and some what heavy, the mother hopes that she would get some energy in our circle, so she shall come DV in september she is also to learn cooking in Leonberg with Mrs W. 
15 I did not go to C. I wait till September when Paul shall come along; he wished it already since some time Dear child do not neglect to read Gods word with much prayer, that alone can keep us alive, and in communion with God, so that we do everything with Him, it is then much more easy. Our joy and pleasure should be in God according to the word. let thy delight be in the Lord and He shall give thee the petitions of thy heart. What a promise? Do we believe it?
