 Calw 4 July </ 14 August>* 1867
 <In Mt Clemens 2 Sept>*
Dear Children

four weeks have elapsed without my having written one line to you. Your last letters as well as your note to me gave us much joy. The Lord be praised for His work in you, which alone is valuable and abiding, our dear Marie Monnard to whom I sent a bit of your note to me writes "Combien j'eus de plaisir … lire les quelques lignes de ton fils Hermann. Il se souvient de moi en mieux que je n'osais l'espŠrer, peut il lire le fran‡ais? je lui ‚crirais volontier; cher Hermann nous ne l'oublions jamais devant le Seigneur. Samuel et sa femme vont bien jespŠre, salue les ces chers enfans de ma part. Quelle famille avec les petits enfans. Puissiez vous un jour ˆtre ˆtre r‚unis tous ensemble: ce serait une belle fˆte, a la quelle j'assisterais volontier"

I hope in september to visit her with Paul who wishes to make a tour before he goes to Tubingen. We shall D.V. spent 2 or 3 weeks in Switzerland, if you write to Marie till then I might bring her your lines.

Your last Photo is often in our hands and shown to the different friends who come here I regrette to hear that dear Christine's hand is not much better, she must pray to the good Phisicien Adieu dear Children a tender kiss to you all
 yours J.G

10th Yours of 24 July has just come for which many thanks, that is right go on straigh to our Ziel Jes to the person Jesus the Lord. Your shirts are tearing we will look for an opportunity to bring you a dozen. With hearty kiss to you all yours J.G.
