+ Dr. Gundert an seine Enkelin nach Montmirail

 Calw 12 März 1890
Dear Julie

When you write about the dreadful examinations I tremble for you. Will they really leave any part of you alive or will you be halked by them in pieces? Anyhow when the remains of yourself return to Calw we shall try to put them altogether and breath life into them that you may be alive and stirring among us with your former energy. You speak of the German choices which puzzled me. Usually we speak of elections when the question is how to fill the parliament with deputies of the nation. Now these elections have been only favorable to the Roman Catholics the Red Radicals and the Socialists. But it is a great comfort to know that our dear Lord has not yet abdicated but will continue to rule amidst his enemies. Your papa has just gone to sit in a meeting of the Pfarrgemeinderath. What he will do there is a mystery to me but I suppose he does nothing bad. On sunday I was again at the Steinhaus when your mama brought Fanny to meet me, and strange to say the little girl laughed at me in a most friendly manner, which has gained my hard heart. You will find her bewitching when you once come to see her. You are of course to live with me, but as to the division of time I cannot say anything, for your parents have to decide at what hours you are wanted in Steinhaus and when you are to be with us. It will I dare say be all ordered peacefully and satisfactorily for yourself. Now goodbye dear child and dont forget to write to Lise rather than to me

 Ever your affectionate Opa
