Dr Gundert, Mangalore, p.p

 <11 Septbr Frtg - 13 Septbr Sonntg 1840>*

Dear papa -

Although I send a letter to day <11/9>* I can began one again I had not the fall of the child today but goodeal of craying; teething I believe at least he look so. this evening came the piano 12* coolees Vedamouttu with them they have been tow days in the way those people of Can, are such a set of viked people they were making a immance noise I could see that were all tipsi, and they wanted me to give them 1 1/2 fanam which I refused than they made such noise that I was obliged to sent to get a pioun from the Coutwall who set the matter, and as I thought every things over they came again before the door of the compound which has shut and nocked, cried, till I sent again a boy over the wall to call a pioun to drive them away also I think I would have had noise for the all night by those tipsy people; they wanted to flogue Vedamouttu Now they are all gone and I hope we shall have a good night. I just now receive the kind note of dear Mr Hebich give him my thanks and best regards. I have been quite astonished of his going We are going to bed and have a kind of seecret hope that tomorrow week perhaps perhaps the Lord, pasteur, papa, friend, the all after God of course will be playing with his elder son 2 ships have arrived here from Bombay I wish our Br. had been in one of them. now I have not writen you yesterday because I knew I would have much time today sonday <13/9>* Mr Harris and Mrs Anderson have been here after the service she came because Misi told her I was tayred after a bad night. that is to say that dear Herman want to play in the mide of the night as I wanted to kep him in the bed to put him to sleep in began to put his fingers in my nose and yer* not oly that but want to his brother so I put him as the flowr where he went on playing for some hour till I by force took him without lisening his sister* and after a good cray went to sleep and as I did not want much to go to Church I say that I was tarid wich allso was true. Mr Brenen too came for the first time since you left every one think it is very wrongue of you to come* by sea and you know Mr B and Mr Ander Mr B says the best would be to have a boat with a man who pull as he went once to Mangalore and he did it in a very short time and went up and down for 10 Rupies

Do Mark this dear do listen if there are some denger you may allwaise comme to shore and it is not dearer Do do so else walk! I wish I had your aprobation to send you the Horse back to you. I hope to have a letter soon from you which says the Bre are come the good people of this place think you will be here next sunday although I have a secreet hope I tell them that it is rather difficulte to be here so quikly, it seams to me that Arul... and Buttler I mean Manuel have cut of the pigtail Milail's wife and Arulapen's wife have had querelle toguether (as they use to have I hear) the last one took the child and run away after a rebuke of her husbond. poor Tobias went after her and she had retire herself under the roof of Nettoor in the house that we had biult for Vedamuttu the Horse and the keeper has arived yesterday at 9 on the evening Give my thanks to dear Br Sutter for the thread and my love to all how is dear Mr Mogl is his jesst* quite well? Do not forget to bring that girl who has been promised to us* by Mr Rolonder*, and some others if you can instead of my poor Eliza! Francis is going one nicely. the sister of Joseph has not come from Enjercandi With the note of Mr Brown was a few words of Paul I have not send it to you as it is only Salams in Malyalam he will have heard by his master your are at Mg. Your sons are going one nicely when Herrman is ask who he is he says papa when we ask were is papa he says there shoing out side mentioning also the Horse on whom you went. Mr Conolly has left the Ander for whom she had a large party I told you. but he did not seams much pleases of so many people (she says) I do not think we will have the house before the other month I mean Oct. Mr Haris will recieve in his house our new B if you wish it till we get the House: or do you wish me to take the house were was Cpt Tisler* before, till we get Mrs Schmidt's one do not forget to tell me what you like - it will be nothink for them to walk up morning and evening. Or perhaps they may have patiane to gether in our house in the same rood I shall make room as much as I can
 JG.
I am glad to hear you have so many nice people at M. May you be much refreash with them and may you be filled with wisedome of the Lord that you may be a blessing and be blesse yourself Yesterday I was blessed in reding the words of Samuel to Saul saying when you were small to your own yeys* it was well for you for God was your all May he be our all and may we give him all glory remembering whole what he has done for us.

Now in him we say adieu we are all well

Do not come by sea except on a small boat pull by man near land tell me what you will do listen the advice of many friends

