Mrs Gundert, Tellicherry, by ..., unpaid

 Hossdrug, Sunday 6th Sept. <1840>*


My dearest wife

I already intended to punish you by writing with my own blood, since you forgot to give me ink, but I think after some consideration that I better use the ink of a travelling Indobriton, whom my appearance this noon at Hosdrug, (or __________________) frightened enough to make me inclined to ask a little service from him. I left Cannanore Saturday morning: went someway with Hebich. A propos Mr Harris bible and Christian witness I forgot entirely, they are still on my table at Tellich. Please send them to West with the Coolies etc the Chr w. for Capt Roberts, the bible to be bound again. After I passed the Valiapatam river I walked on several hours with some Brahman's 2 Nayer's, rather intelligent people, to whom I could expound the whole way of salvation. Hope and pray, the Lord may bless unto them the rainy walk. Arrived at Madai ________________________ or Payangadi ________________________ old Bazar about 10. There you might have seen me, making fire and drying my clothes piece by piece. A catholic boy who stood near, and wants some day to enter into our school told me as reason why his skin is black mine white _________________________________________________, and that he often washed himself without losing his colour a bit. - At last my servants came, and William with them, Hebich's halfcast had sent him uncalled for. I took a third Cooly to bring him in the evening to Cavai: spoke with some Brahmans near a Pagoda, where they were going to offer flowers. Today Sunday on Backwater from 4-12 o'clock chiefly for the children's sake. They ate something half way at Cadu catcheri and we tried in vain at Nileshwaram to get a third oar. They there washed just the Raja's elephants, which induced me and boys to bathe likewise. Noon here at Hosdroog and in the evening I hope at Becal, the distance from which to Mang. is like that from Valapattu to Becal. I hope to arrive Tuesday night or Wednesday morning. - I think many things about you and Hermann and Samuel: but I better do not analyze it, enough to you that I declare a married man has many a plaque1. On the other hand more joy - f. i. preserve and pickle in the basket - if he was unmarried, more books and ink. Do not trouble yourself much about the furniture - I settled it all thro Vedam and Ananden, with Br West and Hebich. Will try to give this to a Tappalman.  Your HG.
