Revd Gundert, Mangalore, pp

 Telicherry 16 Sept <1840 Mittw>*

Dear Papa

although I sent you a letter yesterday I send again one today because I suppose it will be the last and perhaps to morrow would be too late. I spent 2 houres with Mr And. from 5 till 7 with all our children. She was very kind and tray to make me happy which was rather difficult since I could fancy it was against her husband's wish to be deprive of his usal promenade, with her however it went on, On our return I met the Harris's who had come to spend the evening with me they were returning as it was late thinking I would have tea with the A. than they came back and we had a nice evening he said that he had written to Cpt Mil. but had no enswer, they went away early; but I dont know how it was I slept very badly I had fever for some hour till dear Her. made me company in watching and playing. 
today the brave schoolmater <Berger>* with the Mony he received in the absance of his revd Master he has chosed to make himself tipsy the girls have seen him on the way roling on the ground not able to walk. Whe you come back you will have enough to satisfy your new born in playing, every little while he comes takes me by my goon and show the piano saying va nia nia he will not toch it himself seams to have a kine of fear, but like to hear it when he asks me I say wait papa will come and do it than he turns his head and says h‚ h‚ Oui have the rain continualy and some time very coold. It is well you tell me about that tea table I had just given it to a carpenter to mend it but I have took it back. the dear Samu‰l began to lough nicely he is nicely. many say Herr does not look so well then he did teething again. It is quite a disapointement to think those dear new Br have not yet come we are all anxious to hear if they have come but so short before Fridy day in which I shall have a letter I hope perhaps the last before I see your face.

Mr Harris is writing to you to day I think, so you will have by him all the news that you poor widow does not know how to give by good reasons knoing nothing herself.

I am not astonished about Michael', All here continue to be as before every one asking when will Saibu Master come back You speak of 5 or 6 days we dont know if you mean from the arival of the B Now I say good by Adieu in him who is able to keep our bodays and souls When I know the day of your leaving M I shall begon to count the houres.
 Yours
 Julie Gt

Herman takes me and when I am near the piano where he wants me as I did not sit he takes the chairs and putts it to me that I may stay a litle longer or take him up

I think you will find him improve more love, and I hope more obediance I had to put him in the corner which he could not well enderstond but has been better since
