Revd Dr Gundert, Mangalore, p.p.

 Tallicherry <Donn>* 10 <-11. Frtg>* Sept <40>*

Dearest husband

Your letters which I recieved this morning gave me a great plasure only I am affraid you have made such haste in your journy that you may have hurt yourself. I do regreat with you that the Bretheren have not yet arrived; but nevermind dear be without any anxiety, as for the Church or people of this place they have been told that you would not come back before 3 weeks You will be a long time before you see those dear people again at M. so do enjoy them while you are there. I am glad to hear of Mr Greiner's wife and of the welfair of every one. I do wish very much you could come by an other way than by sea; every night here we have very great store* with much rain it is very much like when we were in our way from Cochin to M. You do remember it; it does make me exious* to think you will come by pattemah. We choose the little time in which there is no rain to take a walk with all the children; this evening I went to see the Dr Mrs Harris gave me her bearers as it was raining a little I could not walk with the little pet whom I wanted by the advice of Mrs Harris carry there to show the D a small peace of flesh which has grow on the nevel (un esp‚ce de bouton) the Dr said it was nothing only if it encrease I should tell him He send me some powder for the complains of the chaild that you know that is - to say paine before his water come out caused by heat; in the same time I received your dear letters I had 4 notes 2 from Mrs Anderson one from Mr Harris one from Mr Hebich about some furniture that we have tooks belongings to Mr Lugard, that was the fon, or faint a wood's horse were to put cloth upon, the children's table and 2 stools or moram* these 3 last I kept for 4 rupis but of all the other I made a Cooly load and send it with a servant of the Lugard who had come over to fech those or rather know those things. the pianow is not yet come and if the wether was nice I would send Cooly from this place to fech it because they say there are no cooly at Cannanore, but every day we have rain -

Fr ncis is going one pretty well so every one. I do will regreat Elisa very much she is such a usefull girl and I hope a good girl: may she be a blessing were she has to go; she now keep baby who very often will go to no body else. although hyesterday* as she was playing with him near the window in Flora's room he fel pour dear child at first I very much friten but after a little while as I opened the almira he saw the chees and strach out his hand took the larger peace which he did not give back very soon dear fellow he cried very much and I too for a little while till I was quite sure he had no hurt, his nose and fore head has only been rubed a little; this is a favour of our God he could have been killed O may I in seeing such mark of love trust more and believe on him who does such great things to us. Brave Herman this morning when I had you letters I said this come from papa he was there sitting on his chair at breakfast but when he heard papa than he took the letter went down from the chair and run in the room as if you had been in side than came back rather sorry aproching of me and kissing his brother who was on my knees. He seams to be more affectionate to me than He use to be of course he has more wont of me Joshe is kind to him and tray to get his lowe. I am glad to tell you dear Samuel is very well today the medcine has work nicely brough out scicety* stuff green with undigested milk. Dear Herrman from 12 till 2 in the night was playing. Fony what he does when he goes on his Chaloi he wants every thing which is the bath room brought before him than there sit and look in every one. the boys and girls are as usal the poor one who was sent from Can. is a poor miserable fellow I gave him Vit and satfe* but this will not do you shal have to use your marandu petit when you come back. I sent to see if there was school yesterday in the fort 40 children were learning and so to day I have sent the Bible and other books you wished me to do at Cannanore I do assure you I think that every day I have 4 or 5 notes to write wich is a real trail for me, but after all I can not help and write just as I speak Mrs Harris has been here to teach the Children Mr is not very well but has got a kind of rougeaule I do not know the name, red spot on the skin which require to be kept hot so has got her the little babo I think it will do him good if it could well come out. I do not know what I woud do without Eliza Her. is so foond of her

the 11 Sept <Frtg>* at 3 o'clok we are all well and beg that you would not come by Pattamah I wish you had kept the Horse who could be of some use in coming I hope to have a letter from you tomorrow or Sunday
 Yours aff and also obidient
 wife Julie Gundert
My loves to all

<12 Samst 13 Sonntg>*

