Revd Dr Gundert, Mangalore, p.p

 Telicherry 15 Sept 1840
 <13 Sept Sonntag/14 Sept Mont ->*

I hope you see my dearest husband that I do not want to be stimulat for writing I do it faithfully every two days and even every day you have some time when your letter came today Mrs A. was here teaching the girls she said that she would write to you. I am glade you write to Eliza. But how is it with those Bretren* that they don't come down. Why do you tell me to write in Franch it seams to me more naturel to speak to you in English. Mr Bren. says it may be that at the end of the week the weather will be less rough <bad> after the renewing of the moon. I hope you will follow the advice of Mr B c'est a dire come on a small boat puled by many man. I dare say I have already anoid you enough in speaking about it May the Lord gide you and bring you safly. This evening as I was walking as usal with all our famely I met Mr Baptist who inquired after you, to morrow we have to go to Mrs A who wish to have the children playin in her compound for a litle while after 4 o'clock I shall go in the bandy with your two sons who of corse will like it dear Herm continue at every bandy that he sees to run after it till he can no more than beeing told that is not papa he comfort himself shoing with his finger a way in which you will come back at least I suppose he mean so: Mrs An has been kind enough to sent me her Carpenter who has put right the piano it is not very well but it shall be done when you come back he has also done many other small works for which I was very glad to have him I think the rain will inder us from going in her house this evening Mr Harris has just now sent a note to ask what is to be done with the newspapers as I did not know I say I thought they better keep them in their house till you come back Now My Dear Lord you may be sure that you shall have the charge of writting such a nomber of n“tes which anoid me and tease me so much now I know that you will have got in the way a store o– une abondance of patiance and also of love so you will be not a new husband but a made or refondu Mari You will be so enchanted to see your dear sons again if it please God that we all meet again it will be a greater joy then ever before it seam to me I shall be I hope a new wife in love and a better one in many respects

If they have yet at Mangalore a nomber of inkstend as they had when I was there are they will I am sure ajust you of some I mean those comen China one for the Children the boys and girls as usal pretty nice You will not rebuque me for having made Matoo and Aparu to learn English's letters as the school Master had very little to do. the Monshi except the 3 days of the feast has attend every day never forgetting to ask if I had some new of his Master, and apropos the Englise* <Berger>* one day yesterday as my Reverent Master is not here I pray that you would let me have one rupi, which I did

Mika‰l has written to Chinapen that I should give 4 rupies to his wife. I asked if you had given such order. on no enswer I say that I would give one as I gave one some days ago knowing well those 40* men don't know how to spend the mony, if she is yet in want I will give her.

Your letter of to morrow will tel me I suppose if I have to write more at Mangalore tell me what day you leave Mangalore at wat time hour minute 
Au plaisir de vous revoir bientot jesp‚re malgr‚ plusieurs doutes de votre incr‚dul‚ femme Nous sommes tous trŠs joliment Mme A et les chers Harris te saluent, et toutes les personnes de la Maison
 Adieu but* aff
 Julie Gt.

14 Mardi a 2 heures avant la venue de mes filles

