 Tell. 12th Aug. 40.

My dear Sir <Brown>* -1

I received your kind note this morning after a very disagreeable transaction between* your servants with mine. Yours had in the morning entered the compd of my headservant and a schoolmaster, first to take away a Vettuw boy, Sangara, who for the last 2 months had repeatedly told me he wanted to be received among my boarders as you had dismissed him - I always sent him away, telling him he must bring yours or his father's permission, before I could take him - but the chief design of the band was to seek Puleiar who they said had stolen of your property and whom they thought hid there. The women of the house frightened by their breaking into the house ran to me and I procured a peon from the Cutwall to stop their irregular proceedings after which the boy I hear came out to place himself under the protection of the law. The other boy Abel was seized near the bridge in presence of some of my servts, flogged and taken to your house. I have seen none of them, but have no doubt that your servts have overstepped your directions in using such violence, and I am confident that after their return to you it will be proved* that M. had not drawn them away tho their long acquaintance did move them to run after him: for* my person you may be sure that much as I wish every human being to be free to move according to his inclination only within the bounds of the law, I shall never encourage any desire of slaves to free themselves except in the legal way mentiond 1 Cor. 7,21.

With regard to Mich you have my assurance that I shall take care of him as a sort of legacy from my old friend Rhenius and shall not only render it impossible for him to form anything like conspiracy against you, but also try to soften his temper, humble his pride and by the grace of God render him a fit instrumt for the converion of Gentiles.

