Revd Dr Gundert, Mangalore

 Tallicherry le 6 Sept 1840 <Sonntag>*

My dearest Beloved one and that may it be only after the Lord! 
I began my letter on a large leeves of paper as you see nott minding what it will cost, as I want write to you every day some lines hoping if I am not quite sure that it will interest you to hear not every day but to know what has hapen in every day to your dear sons and in the place were you seem to have been cold by the Lord. I regrette Mr Hebich sent you the letter I had sent you at C by cooly since it contains nothing important or perhaps the letter of the Goves may be 10 Yesterday saterday 5th I received the things that you told to Anendam the schollmaster to sent. I thought they were rather fony and cheefly the hight of each laid in the nomber of 16 coolees were 4 women with a very small charge H wrote to Chinapen about those things sent I send back a word to say that I was displeased to see soo many coolees for soo few things. - the children of Micaell who were ill when he left are better nearly well. - Hysterday as I was walkink on the sea shore (acording my custum since you left) with boys and girls. I met Mr Colloit the sergent from far dear Herrmann thought it was his father and imidatly run to meet him; by finding no love, no affection, no kind look, he turn back with his dear little heart very sad. He told me that sergant that he wanted to have home his little Mary to teach his wife as I told him I thought it was pitty to stop her learning he says with much pride Do not be affraid I know how to teach her every things I can teach her, he seemed to me rather fony: and today he was not in the church this Morning as I was a brackfast came Mr Menees from May‚ with Mr Green a young man who is teacher at Calliot very likely you have heard of him he came to see you he means interesting he was with Mr Roberts at Travandram when we were there he wish very much a Misoinary mai be at Callit. there is no service performed now as the Gentleman who use to do it is rather unwell and unfit to read it. I have invited him to come and see us very often when you come back. he has spoken of an other young men who came with him from Travandram if I do not mistake his name is Somsdback* a German son of a German born in this country he is now with Mr Green at Callicot without imployement and wish very much to be imploye by somme as school master See all together what you can do! When dear Herrman sow these tow man he look so astonished and did not want eat his Brackfast at all. but was only looking them after on a other without saying a word, and as he did to Mr Cali the sergant returned his eys on me with much sadeness. He bagon to like Josephe whom he could not bear as long as Cannen was here. the dear little Samuel is nicely and seems injoied his going out in the evening as I am writing now he is on my knees and is not satisfied of beeing so, but must have something in his mouth as soon as I do take him which is my greatest delight he open his mouth, put out his tongue he very often reminds me of the Bible's words May I in that way walk and have my heart open to recieve from my God and grow to his Glory? Our adopted children are as usal. Mrs Harris came to see me Satterdy so Mrs Anderson they think the poor widow want many coumforts in the absanse of her Lord sheep at least Mrs A. The true Lord and Sheperd can only fill the amty place and so he does I must say to his Glory! Mr Harris who came in the house after his reading praiers, or service says the Children seam a little better Mr Anderson read a Sermon about the new birth; but I must say that I understood very little of it it appears to me rather far from the true renewing the auteur sais he quite agree with the church in the words expressing that by the Baptism a child is reg‚n‚rated; but he can fall. the end of the sermon seams to be contrary to the first part; but I must not speak to much of it what* that to you the pure doctrine you posses my dear papa! I shall send to Cann to get the little boy from the Roberts as I have forgotten him and you too, Mr H wrote me a small note about the tables that I sent over I am going to ask him by the wish of Mr Harris if he would not come spent the next sunday at Tallicherry as very likely Mr Fenell will be at Can - it is now 3 o' clock I suppose you are in the Bangalow waiting for the going down of the sun than again began you jurny, it is no use to me to tell you to take care of yourself but I hope God will do it. Give my kind regards to the dear Makenz and of course to dear Mr Gasels* Baby wants already to feed his brother to day he was putting a peace of platain in his mouth the days seams to me a little longer than they use to do before. tow young men who ere with you before discuting about religion Bramin I believe have been here just now acompaned of a tall man coverd with pictures on his for head and on his breast looking as a great man, as they saw it was not you who were making the prayer at the usal time at 4 o cl* they asked were you where on my axsence* they went away and did not want to hear Chinapen who was just reading -.

Sonday <7 Sept.>* the two School Masters have asked leave for two days saying that it was new ye ann‚e and that no children would come to school the Moonshi too say that he would go to Mah‚. So seeing it was such a feast none of the girl would come of course I mean the little ones I thought I should send Chinapen to Cannanore to get me sugar and coffee, and chifly to bring the little boy mensioned by Cpt Roberts I thought also he had better to send by cooly the pianov* as you say it should be mouved to prevent the insects. the evening in my walk with the children we met the officer Mr W in his bandy with his lady dear baby run after it and wanted go in showing as his father had been there, a little while after came the And. to whom he made a gracious salam wishing very much to join Mrs who was riding. - Dear little Moses is not well he had fever for some days and is coffing I gave him oil, and today the Moolli gave him some medicine.

tusday 8th. I have recieved your dear letter this morning it gave me great plasur, Mr Harris saith if your do go so quikely you will very likely be here on the next thurday to surprise us all I have not such a joyful prospect; but would rather that you would enjoy your dear Bretheren at Mangalore and be some days more with them that you may be refreshed although your widow and orphers counte the days for le plaisir de vous revoir they may submit themselves and be glad for the joy of their Lord. this day has been rather troublesome. first one note from Mr Harris about the mony y compris the bils that you gave him 60 rup. 14 an. then one of Mrs Anderson, then one from Mr Brown sending the mony to you that you would pay the Cathequist Paul this I send to Hebich after a few raids* to Mr Br to tell him you were gone and who would do it the dear little new born is very well much better than he was before you left You remember he had a complaint it is to say the pain before he could make water I told it hesterday to Mrs And. who gave him some medcine and sent me some leaves with which washe the child He had a very good night and such a delightful day scarly any paine I dont think he has ever been so well. his brother also is nicly to day. I gave him some of the powder that you gave me for my self they have work nicely he wanted them for some day he would not fear to be put on his chotoi feeling some pain. Now my dear husband I am affraid you will say what a stupid letter; but I must suppose that your wife and Cild are the first in your thought after God of course So forgiv so many words of the poor idolate mother. to day the Ander had a party to meat Mr I d'ot know the name comme a ma coutume point de memoire, but I believe it is the Collecter from Callicut a pious man said Mrs An who is Widor of 2 wives I have asked Mr Hebich if he could not come to spend the next sunday here as it is likely the rev Chapelan will be at Cannanore I have now an anser* from dear Mr Hebich but he seems so busy that he can scarsly write one line he does not think he will be able to come Chinapen has come from Can and has brought the little boy from the Roberts poor little fellow he is full of eaches and look miserable. Moses is petty well to day Chinapen says Mr H has no time at all to speak what ever the rajah was again with him to day 
Mercredi <9 Sept>* I now may suppose you are at Mang. with your and my Bretheren give them my Salam this morning I had a letter from Mrs Lehner no news

Mrs Harris has been here just now to teach the girls as usal very nice. Mr Harris for 2 days has took phisique which has* incles* him to be member of the party to the Anderson Their children are very much the same. Now my beloved one it is time to send the letter at the post And I suppose you will already be so tariared of reading such a writing that you will not regrett to see a bit of white paper - Always yours
 Julie Gundert
have you heard of Eliza's father's dath inquire about it

